This is Jockel Podcast number 74 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willick. Good evening, I go. Good evening.
Now, I always dug music.
And I'm pretty sure it started when my dad would play Hank Williams' senior on the eight track in his,
I think it was a 1971 barracuda.
And he played that trait that tape just over and over again.
And I still know those songs by heart. And then you know I got that was when I was a little kid.
And then I got a little bit older.
And like a lot of kids, all of a sudden I was listening to the Beatles.
Sure.
Elvis.
Thank you.
Thought they were great.
I still think that song while Mike at Tarjant Lee Weeps is a good song.
But that wore out kind of quickly.
And there was something wasn't there in that music.
Something just wasn't quite there.
The music didn't sound how I felt.
And then in 1980, A C D C back and black came out.
And it was popular, right? It was just popular.
And so it went into my ears at some point.
And I said,
All right, better.
Closer.
Warmer.
We're getting there.
And then I watched around in the hard rock for a while.
Hendrix.
Led Zeppelin.
And I can't help throwing it on a little jack black when I say that.
If you watch that tribute that he did to them.
And that, you know, some of the kids that I hung around with in New England,
they rode that train down to hippie them.
You know, we're talking, Crosby stills a national Janice Joplin in the Grailful Dead and all that.
I couldn't relate.
Wasn't there? Didn't get there.
Didn't seem to reflect the world that I was beginning to see myself.
I got on the other train.
And we're talking about Van Halen.
Yes, this is the 1980s.
You know, if you were a kid in America, age 13, we got issued the album 1984 by Van Halen.
That was just a given you were going to get that.
Got issued diver down.
Boom, you can use the list of this.
This is rock and roll, people.
This is Eddie Van Halen.
Listen to that guitar.
So you're up.
Listen again.
You would again.
Iron Maiden.
Right?
Actual song called Trooper.
You know you got to listen to that when you're a kid.
And so now I'm heading to the right direction.
I'm feeling it.
Starting to reflect what things are like in my head.
And then it was that day where I got an album called Black Sabbath by a band called Black Sabbath.
And this first song is also called Black Sabbath.
And I put that on.
And boom.
I found something that sounded like I was thinking.
And from there, I was definitely on the right train.
Then it was motorhead.
And soon after the Ramones boom.
And then that leads to the sex pistols.
Because you're just going harder.
That's what you do.
That's what I was doing.
What's a little bit harder than that?
Sex pistols.
Bodies.
No feelings.
They're singing songs.
Okay.
I hear what you're saying.
louder.
More anger.
And then.
Find me.
We get to Black Flag.
My war.
Side two.
Still one of my all time favorites.
Minor threat.
Get a hold of a little band.
Another little band from DC called the Bad Brains.
Some Detroit hardcore negative approach.
And then.
So I was, you know, I was kind of in the game, right?
I was there.
And so now 87 rolls around.
And one of my friends who is actually more of a metal head at this time.
He gives me a cassette tape because this is a darkened dirty when you were just going to have to listen to cassette tapes and they were usually dubbed 47 times from somebody else.
But this was the real tape.
And this is the real deal.
This is an actual original with the phone cover on it, everything.
And the cover of this tape was just a giant mushroom cloud of death and destruction.
And above the mushroom cloud.
In large, old English script blazing across the top.
It said.
Chrome mags.
Okay.
And then underneath the mushroom cloud.
And a little bit smaller script and old English.
It said the age of coral.
Okay.
So I put it in my tape deck.
Sure.
And I press play.
And the first track.
It hit me like a train.
And it's the first track was called We Got to Know.
And let me just tell you the lyrics.
Struggling in the streets just trying to survive.
Searching for the truth just to keep us alive.
Got to break these shackles.
Got to break these chains.
The only way we'll do it is if we use our brains.
There's got to be some meaning to the purpose of life.
I know there must be more than the struggle and strife.
I'm not going to be able to do anything for the answers.
And I need a clue.
But my mind is still disturbed.
Now what do I do?
Now I can tell you.
I was not struggling in the streets.
But like most teenage kids.
I did feel some shackles, right?
You feel the shackles of things.
And I was looking for answers.
And I needed a clue.
And so I was like, yeah.
We're on to something.
But I had me a little worried.
A little concerned.
Because like I said, there was a lot of kids who'd taken the hippie route.
And so I was not into that.
The next song titled had me a little concerned.
It was the song was called World Peace.
As I was kind of red flag.
And then I listened to lyrics.
All you hippies better start to face reality.
Are you all your far fetched dreams of anarchy?
Better start to see things.
The way they are, because the way things are going.
They won't be going far.
World peace can't be done.
It just can exist.
Anarchy is a mess.
Okay.
And the rest of the album kept up that assault on my brain,
on my attitude.
And that was it.
I had found something called Hardcore music.
And I never really left it.
And I listened to Chromeags.
And a ton of other hardcore bands from that time.
Until now, and that's pretty much essentially the soundtrack of much of my life.
And it had a pretty big influence on me.
And it was an attitude that I kept throughout my life.
And it was my own interpretation.
I can tell you that right now.
It was my own kind of, you know, you listened to the lyrics.
And you kind of apply what it means in your world.
That's what I did.
Which to me was pretty simple.
Because to me, Hardcore meant Hardcore.
That's what it meant.
It's pretty simple.
Hardcore and everything you do.
Work hard.
Be aggressive.
Don't back down.
Fight for what you believe in.
Hold the line.
And that's kind of what I did in my life.
And I don't know, like a year ago or something.
Somebody asked me something about, you know, on on the interwebs.
Someone said, oh, you know what, what, what, what band should I listen to?
They know I said, oh, blah, blah, Chromex.
You know, check them out, whatever.
And you might want to do that.
And eventually, you know, it's the internet is an incredible thing.
And eventually, I, I, the founding member of the Chromex,
Guy by the name of Hardly Flanagan.
Sure.
He, like, reached out and said, hey, what's up, man?
How are you doing?
And I had heard over the years, you know, that Harley was,
had to jitter, jitter guy, black belt, and jitter.
And so, you know, he just kind of hit me up.
And eventually, you know, we were talking and he said, hey,
I got a book coming out, it's under two.
And I said, cool.
Yeah, and he said, man, the books crazy.
And I was kind of like, yeah, you know, yeah, I know, man,
because you know, I was around that school.
I get it.
It's kind of crazy.
And he's like, no, no, no, man, it's, it's crazy.
And I said, okay, cool.
So he sent it to me.
And then I read the book and,
damn, just, I had, I had no idea.
Actually, I had a semblance of an idea, you know,
because in, in the Hardcore scene,
people know each other.
I mean, like, you know that, you know,
after I show you, talked to everyone.
And it's the band members, it's people.
Everyone kind of knows each other.
So I had heard stories.
But the book, when the reality behind the stories
was, was way more intense and crazy than I could
of, I thought it was.
And it was one point when I was reading the book,
I'm a read a little excerpt right now.
And it, it said this, this is Hardly.
When I started working on this book,
I was staying in a hotel in the Red Light District
in Amsterdam.
The working title was the longest suicide
note ever written.
I was trying to document the madness
from as far back as I could remember until the end.
The story of my life,
as an insane, suicidal, joy-ride
of rock and roll, the prairie,
and demise until the final crash in burn.
It was going to be a book that all the great fuckups
never got to write because they died first.
So I began working on it.
I figured the end would have come sooner than later.
But I was wrong.
And once I got done reading the book,
I reached out to Hardly and I said, hey man,
there's a lot in this book that's crazy.
And the fact that you live through it,
and the fact that you got through it,
and the fact that you got to the position that you're in now
with your life, I think a lot of people can learn from it
and to be awesome if you come onto the podcast.
And Hardly said, let's do it.
So Hardly Flanagan, welcome to the show, man.
It's great to be here.
Thank you for having me on.
Yeah, it's awesome.
And I saw you several times when I was a kid,
and we were trying to figure out names of clubs where I saw you.
But that was pretty cool and it's pretty cool to be sitting here.
I guess we're talking about 30 years later.
You know, I was seeing you when I was in my teens,
14, 13, 15 around there.
And here we are.
Pretty amazing trip we've had since died.
Yeah.
And usually I, when I ask people,
you know, talk about where you come from,
quickly and kind of where you grew up,
and we don't spend a lot of time there,
because most people didn't really do anything significant
that had any long term impact on their lives.
When they're like, eight, nine, ten years old, right?
But for you,
I mean, when you were eight, nine, ten years old,
shit was already crazy.
Yeah, yeah.
She was pretty much crazy from the start.
Yeah.
I'm going to just kind of pull a little something here out of the book,
just to give a little bit of background.
This is from Harley's book Hardcore Life of My Own.
I was born at San Francisco General Hospital on March 8, 1967
at the start of the summer of love.
My mom's name is Rose Marie Foulou, Fellou.
And my dad's name was Harley Wayne Walker,
Flanagan.
My mom was a hippie.
My dad was a drifter,
and somehow their paths crossed.
Before the hippie days,
my mom was into all the early rock and roll stuff,
Motown, and pretty much all the music that was happening when she was young.
Her father, Juan Fellou?
Yes, Juan Fellou.
Juan Fellou came from the DR, the Dominican Republic,
came to America through Ellis Island by himself.
When he was in his early teens,
and one of the first, was one of the first
to medications to join the United States Army,
served in World War II,
where he played in the military band.
That's how he got his citizenship by serving in the military.
He was one of the funniest people I ever knew.
He worked all kinds of different jobs,
everything from building a building super,
to a long storm, and he was a charming guy with a thick,
Spanish accent.
So that's the beginnings.
Did you speak any Spanish?
I curse a little bit, that's not it.
So you got that?
Yeah, yeah.
Now you continue on my mom,
was a go-go dancer.
And like so many people,
she was caught up in the whole drug culture of the 60s.
And when I was a kid,
she was still a stripper.
I remember going to work with her a few times,
and I was little.
That was weird,
looking back on it now.
There was even a short period of time
when she was a dominatrix,
but that was later.
My dad left home for good around the same age as me.
Maybe 14 or 15 and started writing freight trains.
He liked to live for a moment to moment.
And from everything I've heard,
he had a serious drug and alcohol issues
most of his life.
He was always in and out of prison.
It's hard to accept that your dad chose
heroin and alcohol over you.
It really does kind of hurt even now.
I guess that might be one of the reasons
why I turned out the way I did.
My mom and me did a lot of hitchhiking
and stayed with a lot of different people.
A lot of crazy shit happened on those trips.
At one point, a friend of hers was going to Europe
and asked,
do you want to come? And my mom was like,
I'm getting the fuck out of here.
She did and I went with her.
I was probably around three or four.
That was that.
I never saw my father again.
I stayed in Europe pretty much until I was about 10,
but I come back to the States every year or so.
We settled down in Denmark,
1971.
Denmark and Danish culture are very wholesome.
It's a great place to grow up.
But of course, there's an underside too.
In the 60s and in my case, the late 60s and 70s,
it was cool and certain aspects and wasn't so cool in others.
You had all these people fucked up on drugs
and all the free love.
Everybody's fucking everybody.
And it's not really the best environment for a kid to grow up in.
And it's cool as some of the things and a lot of the people were,
a lot of them were at least some of them.
We're just fucking lost.
And yeah, all the kids were wild.
What do you expect?
I mean, we were just in imitating the grownups.
So as a result, I was getting late
and doing all kinds of other crazy ship before I even reached puberty.
You basically had a lot of little kids just going off.
You got all these hippy kids with their hippy parents,
seeing all kinds of crazyness of adults running around naked.
People doing drugs, being insane.
That shit rubbs off on kids.
Damn.
Yeah.
Did you completely think that was normal at the time?
Was that just the way the world was?
That's the way my world was.
I didn't realize really that we were so different from the world.
I was different from the rest of society until my parents tried to put me into a regular school.
And of course, I started getting fucked with a lot by the kids
because I had long hair and I didn't really fit in.
And my parents looked like freaks.
And that was when it really hit me.
And it was also, I went from being at that hippy school
to being in a very strict school in Denmark,
which was like real old school and very rigid.
So it was total culture shock,
and it was like what the fuck?
And so I started cutting school a lot and going back to the free school
to visit all my friends there and just hang out.
And that's where you started playing?
Pretty much.
You know, I mean, I was always in music.
That was really the first place that facilitated it.
You know, like they, that was one of the cool things about that school
was they really pushed the arts.
You know, they, whatever the kids interests were,
they would give you the ability to pursue that.
Unfortunately, they were also very lack.
So if like you didn't have the interest in pursuing math,
or whatever, they'd be like, oh, well, you know,
he's just not interested in it.
You know, he wants to be a musician.
And it's like, you know, as we all know as parents
is like, no, fuck that, you need to know how to do your math.
You need to know your shit.
You need to have, you not use your brain.
You know, it's not just about, you know, gratifying your artistic
and creative interests because that's not going to always pay your fucking bills.
Yeah.
So, no, but it was cool.
It was cool in certain ways, like I said, you know,
they, my math teacher, he was actually from the States.
He was from the Bronx.
And he was a jazz drummer and played stand-up bass.
And he really was a big inspiration on me musically.
So, you know, it gave me some tools.
You know, that came in handy later in life.
Yeah, for sure.
So, you were listening to, actually got your first gig then,
like, like, you were playing little Santana covers.
Yeah.
Cool in the gang covers.
That was my school band.
Yeah, my school band was cool.
They were like, yeah, yeah, no, they were fucking legit.
I mean, we were like, you know, funky stuff, you know,
I mean, we were playing, like I said,
my math teacher, he was one of the band leaders.
So, you know, you got a guy from the Bronx who's a jazz dude.
He's going to be teaching all these little Danish kids musically.
What's really going on?
Right.
Because in Denmark at the time, things like, you know, Abba,
Oh, his voice was big.
You know, so, you know, I mean, so it was like, what the fuck?
You know, so yeah, my school was cool as far as music and counter culture
and all that shit.
But then, you know, then, well, as you may have seen in the book,
really, then when my mother of all people turned me on to the sex pistols,
that's what really got that changed everything.
You know, that was an eye.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
The sex pistols.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
It changed everything for me.
And at that time, like, you got one section here where you said,
I remember coming off stage, you were playing with the band.
I think the school band at this point, I remember coming off stage
one night, these girls.
No, yeah, yeah, but I was hanging out with, they were like, you know,
that lady you came with, which was her mom.
She's in the bathroom. She's not feeling too good.
I went in the bathroom and my mom was throwing up all over the place.
That kind of shit was a kind of come down.
Yeah.
Back to reality.
That's the mom home.
Yeah.
It's fucked up, you know, little things like that.
They stay with you forever.
But, you know, to her,
she did sober up eventually.
And, you know, she's sobered up for about,
in the 80s, the day she died, she was cleaning.
You know,
yeah, you know, people fall victim to drugs to alcohol.
And sometimes it's hard to pull yourself out.
You know, but eventually she did, you know,
unfortunately I had to witness a lot of real,
ridiculous shit, but,
you know,
I don't think there's such a thing as a perfect parent, you know.
No, no doubt about that.
And your mom, she did, like you said,
she gets you this sex pistols out.
Yeah.
And like you said in here, you said,
well, that was that.
Yeah.
And it's almost,
Kansas, what I was saying here we go,
go into your book here.
Until that point,
I hung around with all these little hippie kids.
I had long ass hair,
so we were really already little freaks.
We'd walk around the streets.
People would give us looks and trip out on us.
Our parents and teachers had long hair and beard and shit like that.
But then punk rock came about.
And this was more appropriate for me.
It wasn't all peace and love.
It was just more me.
The music was raw and the imagery and the craziness appealed to me.
It was energetic and a big factor for me was
you didn't have to aspire to be Jimmy Hendrix.
You didn't have to be Carlos Santana.
So you listen to that music and you'd say,
you know what?
I can just play it.
I can do this.
You can play that.
I can have fun and do this shit.
Like this is, you know,
you don't need to rack your brain to figure out how to do this.
You could just do it.
You know,
You're power of horror.
Fuck it.
Yeah, man.
You know, it's like,
you just need some serity, man.
That's all you need, man.
That's all you fucking need.
It was funny.
I always tell people this about music.
If you go to a guitar store anywhere in America
and you put up a little flyer in there that says,
you know, I need someone that can play every note on the following three albums.
You know, and you pick a complex, you pick rush and cart and they're,
and they'll be, you'll get 10 people that'll say,
yeah, I can play all that stuff.
I'll play it for you right now.
But there's,
and all those guys, I mean, a lot of those guys,
unless they have that thing, unless they have that sincerity that you're talking about,
and they have that little spark of creativity.
It doesn't matter how technically you are,
if you don't have that heart.
You could be technically amazing and have not won
ounce of inspiration in your fucking body.
You know, and I mean, look, man,
you know, the Ramones were, you know,
some of the worst greatest musicians ever.
You know, those guys could barely fucking play
and they wrote some, they wrote songs that are still anthems.
You know, songs that you will still hear played at like major sports,
arenas or whatever.
I mean, you know, yeah, you know, music's a fucking weird thing, man.
That is, it is.
And you had your first band called Little Big Boss.
Is that in reference to you?
I mean, you know what?
Since you've been here a whole, you know,
it must have been because the other two guys in the band were adults,
and they named the band.
So looking back, they probably named it after me,
because I was like, I guess already,
a tyrant to play with, but you know,
and you were playing drums at that time?
Yeah, yeah.
Hammering all the drums.
And then you guys move back to,
back to New York.
Yeah, and you're going back and forth back to New York.
Yeah, I mean, my mom, we lived in Europe,
but we would come back every year or year and a half or so
to see my grandparents and my aunts and stuff.
And so we always had that connection to New York.
We always came back and I, you know,
and I was here during all, like, the pivotal moments in history in New York.
Like, you know, I remember it's on a Sam,
which was huge if you were here.
You know, I remember the blackouts,
which were also huge if you hear,
I remember the garbage strike,
which was also insane because you had like,
20 foot mountains of garbage every fucking way.
I mean, the city's stink.
I mean, you know, like,
I remember all the madness of New York.
I mean, I moved back here for good in 79,
like, I guess, January or February of 79.
It was like the weeks it died.
Actually, the stimulators were supposed to play
maxes the one weekend that he was playing any died before the show.
But, um, yeah, you know,
it was a much different place back then, you know,
you guys know, you know,
but a, you know, a lot of people who have only been here over the last 20.
Years, they have no clue.
Yeah, no.
It is a different place.
And I mean, you know, in the book,
you got crazy pictures like you and Andy Warhol.
Yeah.
Because you were just your,
it was your aunt Denise that was running with that.
Well, no, actually, he, that was just a random moment.
My mom actually knew him.
She had been in one of his movies when she was young,
when she was like 15 or something.
And that picture was just taken at the class show.
Like I used to run into people like him at different clubs and stuff.
This was backstage at a class gig first time they played.
You look like you're about 10.
I was actually 12 in that picture.
But yeah, I mean,
I was at all the clubs all the time.
You know, I mean, it was actually,
it was, you know, kind of weird.
You know, thinking back on it because like,
I mean, when I, when I did a video,
I did a thing with Anthony board day and a while back.
And he was like, you know, he, he's like,
I remember standing front of clubs like Max is and trying to get in.
And you know, here come this like 12 year old kid.
Just like walk through the fucking door.
Like the bounce was just like let him in.
Like, you know, like he belonged in there and I'm like,
who the fuck?
And why the fuck is this child here?
Like who let him in and who the fuck is he?
And why are they serving him?
Like he's the fucking mayor.
You know, you know,
thinking back it is, yeah, it's fucking a little strange.
You know, I mean, I was, I was the youngest kid that you
around on the club scene back then.
And then, you know, as time went on,
you know, my band, the stimulator,
it was really, had a lot to do with it.
The crowds at the show started getting younger.
And younger because like, you know,
we started pulling a very young following,
you know, go figure 12 year old in the band.
And people like the Beastie Boys,
they started coming to see it before they were the Beastie Boys.
They were like, they were just fans of ours,
friends of mine.
They were like some of my best friends growing up.
And then a lot of other people who went on to
start a lot of the first wave of New York hardcore bands
were fans of the stimulators.
Kids were all like, you know,
and they really teens when they used to see us play.
And then they went on to start a lot of the bands that
they had, you know, set off that.
How long did you play with the stimulator for?
I had only played with them from like 79 to like 80.
Maybe the beginning of 81.
And then I was done with it because at that point,
I had already, you know,
the bad brains had come to New York and I was already.
And I was, all that first hardcore that came out from,
you know, black flagged a circle jerks,
minor threat and of course bands like this charge
from over see from England, you know,
and all that shit was starting to really take over my,
my, my soul.
And so I was like, you know,
I can't play with the fucking stimulator anymore.
It should as to poppy.
It's to like, it's happy.
It's just not, it's not where I am.
And at that point, I had already, you know,
the life I was living on the streets and the wife that,
you know, the other band members were living was not really the same.
I was just hitting my teens.
And as we all know,
that's when the problem was became,
you know, that's when you start getting in trouble.
So yeah.
And the music that I started writing really reflected the,
the feelings that I was having.
You know, the, because of the,
not just the environment, but just, you know,
everything leading up to that point had,
had created this person.
And, and it was a really violent neighborhood.
You know, it was a really violent neighborhood.
And I ate a lot of shit for being white.
And, um, which is ironic because, you know,
I'm quarter Dominican and I'm Cherokee and I'm Chakhtow.
But if you look at me, especially, you know,
you know, all Puerto Rican neighborhood, I'm a white boy.
You know, so I really ate a lot of shit.
I really, you know, until I started fighting.
And actually, started getting more,
I hate to say it, but it started getting more violent.
That started to earn me a little bit of respect.
And, uh, I guess the fear and the credibility kind of went hand in hand,
like when people knew that they couldn't fuck with me.
I started getting respect.
And, um, I don't really think that's a really healthy,
for a young mind to associate popularity with violence and aggression.
You know.
Yeah.
And I mean, New York at that time.
And like you said, and I used to come down to New York sometimes when I was younger.
And it was completely different.
You know, in the mid 80s, on you were there earlier than that.
But for me, in the mid 80s, when you'd come down here,
it was completely different.
I mean, we're sitting here right now in Times Square.
Times Square was fucking nuts around you.
It was not man.
There was like, you take two, every two steps.
Somebody be off and you drugs.
You know, I used to come here when I'd cut school and just watch people get pickpocketed.
Watch the hookers, turn in tricks and the guy is selling drugs and the people getting into trouble.
Yeah.
It was, it was a fucking free for all of us.
Really?
And where you were living, you were living.
Yeah, it was just dangerous.
It was dangerous.
It was way worse.
I mean, I was talking to, Iced, the other day we were talking about.
You know, some of our experiences and just in my area alone, I mean,
there was about five or six gangs within a, you know, ten,
fifteen block.
Distance, you know, everything from the hitmen on my block were,
were fucking really out of control to the Hell's Angels on third street,
who back then were legitimately no fucking joke.
I mean, you know, I mean, I could tell you some fucked up.
Stories, but you know, you can tell me fucked up stories.
So it's just, it's hard to, you know, it's hard to, if people go to New York now,
it's just completely different.
Yeah, it really is.
It's, it's impossible to really get it.
I mean, the best thing you could do is look at like some old movies that kind of try to capture the,
then you got some pictures in the book that show the neighborhoods.
Yeah.
And there, you can tell, you can tell they look like a war zone.
I mean, I wouldn't know, but they look as close to one of the things.
They look like a war zone.
You can take it from me or that one.
I mean, I mean, dude, I was living in a squat.
We literally had no running water, no windows, no doors.
What's the, how old were you when you like moved out?
I was like, I was told when I was like 14, you know,
because basically I was getting into so much trouble in school that they were about to,
basically take me from my mother and put me in like spotford.
And I was like, fuck this.
You know, I had lost interest in school and all that shit.
It's actually funny.
I was something I wanted to tell you.
When I was 15, actually just right down there,
there was a recruiting center of Army Marines, Navy the whole bit.
And I was 15.
I tried to enlist in the Marines, you know, because like at that point,
I was already, I was very, I guess I had a lot of pent-up aggression.
You know, and I was just like, you know, I just want to fucking, you know,
I probably shouldn't say this and probably sounds bad for the military,
but I just wanted to kill.
I just wanted to fucking kill and I wanted to be able to, like,
I just was so fucking, you know,
and it didn't help that my mother was a hippie.
So, you know, just it's natural for a teenager to rebel against everything their parents believe in.
I mean, I had like fucking recruiting, you know, catalogs and shit under my bed,
whereas most kids probably had, you know, their playboys and shit, like my mom would find my
rugby, I don't know, their recruiting shit, like what is this?
You know, instead of like holding up the fucking, you know, pent-ups,
what did he do?
He's like, I had him raised by a son to beat no soldier.
Get out of fucking hippie fucking.
There's a lot of guys in the military.
You know, I like fuck this.
Through the years, you're a hundred percent right, because through the years,
there's so many guys in the military and you meet some guy and you're like, hey,
how's it going?
You know, you learn their last name at first, but then you know,
you get to know him a little bit and you're like, you know,
what's your first name?
And they'll be like, oh, my first name is Rainbow.
You know, my first name is, you know, Ocean.
And then they go, yeah, my parents were happy, you know.
And so many kids rebel against the hippie parents.
I'm going to be a horrible man.
I'm going to the in the sea with these.
That's very common.
So you're a hundred percent right.
It's a good way to rebel.
And I even say this, you know, for me, you know,
hardcore was a rebellion.
No, yeah.
And going in the military for it was a rebellion against the the norm.
You know, was everyone's going to a,
go be a hippie, smoked dope, go to college, get a job.
And I was like, no, I'm going to go be a commando and just get after it.
Fuck you know.
Yeah, dude.
So you know what, it's fucked up because it's like,
had I followed those instincts, you know.
I mean, you know, and some ways my life would have been probably a million times better.
I know what it had a lot more, you know,
discipline.
I would have had a lot more focus.
I would have had more positive of a ship, you know, going on.
I would have learned some of skills in shit, but at the same time,
I wouldn't have fucking written age of quarrel.
I wouldn't have written best wishes.
I wouldn't have influenced people like you to be, you know,
to go above and beyond what the fuck I could ever fucking try to do.
You know, so it's like I feel like in my own way,
I managed to do my service to, you know, humanity.
If you will, you know, although it was a disservice in a lot of ways
because I did inspire a lot of people to do a lot of really fucking wrong shit, you know.
But, but nonetheless, the inspiration that it was real, it was genuine.
I think that's why I 30 years later, people still give a fuck about that record.
And people still out making money on that record.
And, you know, people still cover songs off that record.
You know, and it's funny because I was telling you earlier.
I mean, that line-up that played on that record.
Only lasted for one fucking record.
You know, it's amazing how short-term it's a lot.
Yeah, sure.
Yeah.
And it's like, and you know, it was something special because still now,
30 years later, people still talking about it.
And not many people can say that based on one fucking album.
Yeah.
You know, so, that's good shit.
I got it.
I'm just going to go like, I'm talking about your neighborhood.
This is just kind of a sample of what you were living around and in.
Back to the book.
I remember one night lying there hearing some check down the street getting raped.
And knowing there was really nothing to do.
It was like a helpless feeling.
You knew that if the cops got called, it wouldn't matter because they probably wouldn't show up.
And if they did, it would be too late and they probably wouldn't find her.
Yeah.
One night, my mother's then boyfriend got the tip of his nose almost shot off by a zip gun.
He has a scar to this day.
Just because he was white, looked a little freaky and was walking down our block.
I remember coming home one night in my aunt.
And my aunt, my aunt and and Gustafson, the stimulators base,
has jumped by six dudes with golf clubs and shit trying to pull her guitar out of her hands.
You don't really think about a group of guys jumping two chicks in a kid,
but that shit happened.
They didn't give a fuck.
You've got to figure a lot of these guys would hang out and huff glue and shit.
And when you huff glue and you smoke a lot of dust, you get pretty grim and lean towards the violence.
Yeah.
So there's your surroundings, there's your environment.
I mean, it's, you know, it's, I'll tell you, man, it's, it's, uh,
it's almost harder to hear it being read back to me now,
especially in your voice, but, but it's like, you know, it's real.
And it, it brings back a, a serious emotional response at me, you know.
You know, as I was reading that, I was just thinking of myself because you and I, you know, in the scene,
there was always guys that had dogs, right in pit bulls, everyone had pit bulls.
And as I was reading that, you know, you and I both know, if you take a pit bull,
and you bring it up and you beat it and you torture it and you heard it,
that dog's going to be a mean evil bastard.
And if that dog's brother can get brought up and get fed and get taken care of and, you know,
sleep and get treated good and that dog's and grow up, I mean, I said, you know,
I just think and you take a person, a human being and you put them in an environment where that's what they're living with and that's what they're seeing and that's what's around them.
They're going to tend towards that direction.
Yeah. And it's going to be hard to break out of that shit.
It is, you know, and it's, you know, look around at the world, man.
You know, look at all the, all the fucking getos everywhere. Look at all the, you know, all the, you know,
a lot of people don't get outside of this country, you know, they live here.
So if people don't realize how well they have it, you know, and even, you know, I used to laugh.
I was talking to my friend, Meli Mel and we were saying, I was saying, you know, I don't even understand what the fuck's up with all that,
like Wes Kowe's gang banging shit. I mean, these guys, they, first of all, they don't even have to deal with winter.
They, you know, second fall. They all got like yards and garages and fucking barbecues and shit.
Like we grew up in like apartments with fucking rats and roaches and, you know, concrete everywhere.
Yeah. And, you know, what the fuck you so pissed about that you need to go and shoot at each other and kill each other. You have fucking bored.
Like it's just, you know, it is an interesting dynamic here in New York City, the way it is.
Yeah, it's very, it's, it's, I mean, even now that it's like, you know, soft as fucking baby shit, it's still in touch.
Yeah, you know, I like, I, I just, I feel confined when I'm here, you know, now, now that I've grown up when I come here,
I living cow, I live a cow for you. Yeah. And you're right. I got a yards.
And I got a barbecues. And, and my neighbors have yards. And they say good morning.
Yeah, you know, it's going up. And it's, it's like you just, you have space, yeah.
Yeah, it's a real thing. And animals, you know, you can't put animal in little tiny cage. They get pissed off.
Yeah. That's what we do with 8 million people in New York put him in little tiny cages, but it's hard getting pissed off.
It's tough.
Especially when the good majority of them are broke a shit.
But this whole time, as you're doing this, at the same time, you're still listening
to music, you're going to show us all the time.
Like you said, the bad brain show up.
Yeah.
That was a change.
That was a game changer.
They were as groundbreaking as far as for me.
They rocked in my world as much as the sex pistols.
Like it was like all of a sudden it was a new chapter.
I, you know, the way you wrote about the bad brain.
So the bad brains for those of you that don't know is a band from DC and they were pivotal
in changing music, really, generation of music.
And there's all kinds of bands that reference them, like big bands that reference the
bad brains.
But here's what you said about the bad brains.
That's one thing.
Yeah.
But this is for those who don't know, they were not only one of the innovators of
what we call hardcore punk, but they were all black.
And they were from DC.
And you know, there was not many black kids on the scene.
There always was black kids on the scene.
There was always Puerto Rican.
It was always everybody.
You know, we always, it was always mixed diversity on the scene.
But they were like the best.
They were the tightest.
They were the best.
They were the fucking, they were the shit man.
And a lot of times when people first heard their first 45, you know, just because of the
style of the music, people didn't even know they were black.
And they'd go see them.
They'd be like, oh shit, these guys are black.
Now that may not seem like a big deal now.
But we're talking about fucking, you know, 80.
You know, and yeah, they were just the fucking, they were the shit man.
And then they got into rostophionism.
And that, you know, even further made it even more bizarre.
A bunch of fucking rostos from DC playing hardcore.
Yeah, you know, with the fuckers dad.
And playing it better than everybody, like fucking smoking motherfucking.
Yeah.
You know, you know, I think if you got to see the bad brands back in the day, you're
lucky.
And I mean, I remember seeing the bad brands and just being.
You just, just, I mean, it'd be like seeing James Brown back when he had Bootsie Collins
on base, like back in the old, like when he was like all over the, I always used to like
in HR to like James Brown meets Johnny Rotten.
Yeah.
You know, here's what you said.
Back to the book.
You hear a lot of crazy stories about HR. HR is the, the singer from the bad brands.
Throat in the bad brands.
But as crazy as HR can act at times back in the day, he was inspirational beyond belief.
He and the bad brands had the entire New Yorkard, your see, hardcore scene talking like
fucking Jamaicans for the longest time.
Everybody was like fire, bro, and blood clot.
There's a stericle.
There you go.
The mob were so heavily influenced by them that the base players started growing dreads
and wearing a roster hat.
A whole contingent of white roster started popping up on the hardcore scene.
They took things to another level.
It was impossible not to be inspired by the bad brands.
The only way to describe HR would be like James Brown meets Johnny Rotten meets Bob Marley.
He was such a dynamic front man.
HR could do a standing back flip and land right at the end of the song, nail it right
at the last beat.
It was like, oh my god, did he just plan that?
I remember one time at A7, which was a tiny club.
Within the first two minutes or so of their show, he had already knocked the sheet rock ceiling
out and bent the Mike stand in half.
The amount of explosive energy that would come out of that mother fucker, you couldn't
help, it would be blown away.
Especially since we were all young and here was this guy that was in shape.
He used to be a javlin thrower back in high school.
He was always athletic.
So he had a bunch of scrawny punk rock mother fuckers and then this dude's up there.
That was an athletic powerhouse going completely apeshit and he could sing his ass off and
he could hit notes.
HR came out there with a purpose like he was on a mission.
Every show I saw there is back then was amazing.
I remember I saw him up in Boston one time and he was like going, I guess fire pipes
or whatever sprinkler pipes and he's leaping up and swinging on those things and jumping
off into crowd.
It was nuts.
He was a must.
He's also man, he spent half the show in the crowd.
He was, yeah, you know, you can't, you can't, you can't even, you know, yeah, man, they
was something.
Everybody has that moment though that period where they really, you know, will not
everybody, but everybody who's like intense, you know, you think about your life, you
can think of that one period where you were just on fucking point, you know, and they
were like 16 at a ended like last week.
You know, I would have been laughing.
I would have been laughing.
That's some of us, but yeah, there was a period when they were just fucking untouchable.
And you know, if you've seen HR now, yeah, I've seen him over the few actually.
Like, seen him talk to him.
I, last time I spoke to him and he came out to my house was probably around 2011 or 2010.
And, you know, he's definitely, you know, he's got some issues.
He had suffered some serious.
He has like mental issues, you know, I mean, I don't know what his diagnosis is.
I'm not going to stay in here and pretend to know, but it's, you know, but you can tell
there's a clear change.
But yeah, that guy from that guy, yeah, that guy now, there's something that's definitely
clear as something a psychological difference, you know, and I, you can't just blame
it all on drugs because, you know, some of us have done plenty of them and are fine.
So I mean, there's, there's something that's, yeah.
You know, and it's really sad.
It's really sad.
You know, they're playing.
Well, you know, I don't, I don't know, I don't know when or what they're doing and
playing.
I mean, and God bless them, you know, I mean, Dr. Noah, you know, he suffered a stroke and
a heart attack and he had to like learn how to use his hand again.
And I, and everything, I actually did a benefit show us a record that's available on
the pledge music.
It's the only place you can get.
You can't even buy it in stores and 48% of the music goes to help him just help him.
Also, you know, to whatever he needs help with, you know, because God knows he's pledged
music.
Yeah, you just search pledged pledge music, Harley Flanagan, and the song will come up.
It's one of the songs is called Friends Like You.
But anyway, yeah, I mean, those guys were intense.
I mean, it'll never be what it was, you know, I'm glad that they're doing their thing
or, you know, whatnot.
But I think my memory of them is from that period.
Yeah.
And he, he probably saw how many times did you see him?
I don't know.
I've got some.
I have no idea.
I saw them so many times.
I saw them out on the west coast and, you know, excuse me.
Yeah, I saw them in Tijuana.
Oh, yeah.
But HR wasn't where the, so it was kind of like, yeah.
But not that's cool.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
I was the singers who were really good.
Great dudes, great singers, but it's really hard to follow.
And someone like, yeah, footsteps, I mean, that's a rough follow.
That's a rough follow.
Yeah, sure.
So meanwhile, you did a trip to England.
This is the first time you saw skinheads before.
Well, I saw some skinheads.
I got my head shaved in Ireland.
I had seen skinheads one time before in London, but I didn't know what the fuck they were.
I was just like, what the fuck?
I like I can tell that there was something they had an interesting look like they, you know,
but the shaved head thing was what got me.
And yeah, so I met skinheads in England in the 70s, but I got my head shaved in
Belfast in 1980.
And here's what they told you.
Going back to the book.
I always remembered what the Belfast skins told me.
Teach America about skinheads.
The first few friends of mine to shave their heads included Adam Yach.
We know that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
From the Beastie Boys.
And a few others who weren't really skinheads in the stereotypical fuck way.
They just like the look in the music.
I mean, we were all into the early, always style music.
Cockney rejects and bands like that, even though it wasn't really called Oya.
The two-tone thing was happening with all the scob bands jumping off like the specials
and selector and madness.
And they were all popular with the skinheads early on.
But there still wasn't a skinhead scene in New York just a few friends of mine who were up on it.
We were going a couple of years all that would change.
So obviously the typical person that doesn't follow the music scene, at least at a deeper level,
when they think skinhead, they immediately think of sort of the branch that went off and got the most press,
which was the neonazi skinheads.
But the original, the origins of the skinheads is actually black dudes, rude boys, scob bands, like the specials and madness.
And that's kind of what you saw.
Yeah, I mean, I actually talk about a little bit of that in the book.
I give a little bit of the historical information, just to give people a clearer idea.
Yeah, but you know, the media always latches onto whatever is most sensationalistic.
They try to always grab the worst aspects of what people are doing.
And you know, yeah, you know, that you got it, you know.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, I'll say one more thing, the New York scene had always been more diverse than most hardcore scenes that always been Spanish kids, black kids, Asian kids.
A lot of the early New York hardcore skinheads were Spanish.
Yeah.
Majer from Agnostic Front, which if you don't know, Agnostic Front is probably, they might be considered like the,
oh, they're definitely one of the biggest sort of skin head bands from America.
And they were absolutely the first real like New York skin head.
Yeah, you know, I mean, but yeah, you know, and he's Cuban, he's Cuban.
Diego was Puerto Rican as was Jose from the mob.
And so a lot of skinheads that came around later, even back in the Max's days, you had the bad brains pure how the influence of one of the first real New York hardcore bands.
Yeah, I think where you just pulled up, I was just talking about the diversity on the scene in New York.
New York has always been different from other places, you know, you, you know, that's one of the things that's cool about it here.
Yeah.
I could say you could say it's fairly diverse here in New York City.
Fuck.
You know, this is Gabby, one of the most, I bet you, I don't know, you have to look at this, but is New York City one of the most diverse places on the planet?
It's far as like different languages that are spoken.
I mean, one thing I noticed that, you know, you can eat any type of food here, you know, so it's hooked by a people that it's connected.
Yeah, it's a big, so I mean, we had that moved here like three weeks ago.
That's one thing I always loved about it here, you know.
We just had gangmem style, uh, don't bling.
Yeah, don't bling and sushi.
Surred by by gangmem style.
Oh, oh.
And meanwhile, you know, at this time, back to the book, I was drinking a lot, huffing glue, taking pills and lots of LSD and whatever else.
So this whole time, that's what's just prevalent in the same year.
Yeah, New York was a very much, um, our scene liked to get fucked up.
In DC, they were they invented straight edge, you know, they were there all about being clean and sober and and God bless them.
And, you know, that caught on like wildfire in other places, you know, the straight edge movement spread and whatnot.
And we always went the extreme opposite.
We were like, you know, they had a song, don't drink, don't smoke, don't fuck.
We used to sing, you know, we drink, we smoke, we fuck you.
You know, and, um, yeah, we're a bunch of fucking idiots.
You know, I mean, you know, unfortunately, you know, at that point in my life.
And in the hardcore scene, uh,
who's often cool how fucked up you could be.
Yeah.
And I'm sure it's that way in a lot of the world and a lot of youth culture and a lot of, you know, crews and gang culture and you know, I don't mean to theorize.
But I'm going to do it a little bit of a last five.
You know, like, cultures back in the day or some cultures, even today,
when you want to prove that you are will sacrifice yourself for the tribe a little bit, like, I'll go hunt that lion or I'll go out and do something that's hard.
And that's hard. And I'll take risks for the group. And I'll prove that that I don't care what happens to me.
Yeah.
I should have been in the place.
Some places I think that, hey, I'm going to prove that I don't care what's happened to me.
Watch me drink this, watch me shoot this, watch me smoke this and whatever.
No, I agree.
I think that that instinct that still in us doesn't have a place to be used properly.
And I'll tell you where I got that philosophy from in the Seal teams.
Man, when I came in, it was like the way that you kind of proved that you were tough was drinking and fighting.
Yeah, drinking and fighting, everything to a fucking extreme.
If you fucking drink five, I'll drink 10.
Yeah.
You fought two motherfuckers off, fight fucking five motherfuckers.
And that's what it was.
And when the war started, it did not like that stopped because that stuff still goes on.
But it definitely in my mind, it in my mind, I was thinking,
and we still drank, I was still party, I didn't got after it.
But it was different, man.
It was different to all the sudden be saying, hey, look, you know what I need to prove myself is on the battlefield.
I need to be ready for that.
And so when I apply that to like all of society, it seems like a young kid like you,
who's 15, 16 years old, how do you prove that you're tough?
How do you prove your manhood?
Oh, you think you can drink 12 shots, I'll drink 20.
Bring it.
Yeah.
And you know, you talked about like the straight edge movement and those guys, it's interesting.
Well, they took it to a level 2, they stopped fucking.
They even did, they stopped.
And again, smoking that fucking.
And then how did they prove how did they did then prove that they were tough?
They would go out and fight and beat up people that were drunk and shit like that.
Well, that's how we started happening in some scenes.
Yeah.
Because like in DC, those guys were always, they always tried to be more PC.
They always had a little bit more consciousness.
But in a lot of other places, you had bands like you know, you got, I got in trouble with Ian McKay.
Adam.
Remember when Fugazi came on this day?
So Fugazi, one of my buddies from DC, this is back in the day.
And one of those guys, one of my buddies from DC.
They sent me a demo tape.
And he said, hey, this is Ian's new band.
And you're a guy.
No, I was like cool.
I had to grade out.
No, I was like, yeah, I was great.
And so we went and saw him in Brooklyn.
Me and my boys went down to Brooklyn to see him.
And we went berserk.
And he wasn't feeling that.
And he was like, and he had like longer curly hair.
And he's standing there.
And he put like, they played her first song and we just cleared out.
Yeah.
To destroy everything was like, he was like,
He was like, um, hey, I'm just trying to think what he says.
So he knows I'm not bullshit.
If you ever hears this, he said something along the lines of like,
let's leave our, let's leave our machoism and our ego is at the door.
You know, if you're going to dance, be cool or something like that.
And so then I was like,
What do I do now?
Music rocks.
I want to break stuff.
And I couldn't.
So, I remember when he started going that route.
And you know what God bless him.
No, man, you said he got a lot of respect for you.
I was fucking cool as fuck.
Yeah.
And he has always had his integrity.
And as he, as he matured,
you know,
his way of thinking.
Yeah, and you know what you got to respect him.
Yeah, he held the line with what he did.
And he's recklessly never sold out.
You know what hats off.
First of all, he's fucking legit man.
First of all, I got none.
First of all,
Now,
at this time,
used to break his balls fucking relentlessly though.
But that's just the way I am.
If I, if I like someone and respect the chances of I'm going to really
fuck with them whenever I have the opportunity.
You know,
yeah, um, so fuck you.
Yeah, I hear that.
At that time, you,
you kind of came up with the name of the Kromax name.
Yeah.
And you started like tagging everything with the old mags.
Yeah, yeah.
You just, you had a kick ass band.
That's like when we talked about my first
the hardcore band called Bronson's Children.
First thing we did,
no music.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You got to hit it.
You put the merchandise.
So, you know, that's what we did.
But you were doing the same thing.
Yeah, we did that.
Right.
If you could actually play music, and I was just,
yeah.
Uh,
uh,
let's see what we're going with this one.
So you started coming, putting together the band.
And then things started getting a little bit crazy.
You beat someone up,
who's some friend of someone else, and all of a sudden,
you heard that you had like a price on your head.
That was actually before the Kromax really,
was the, yeah, it was pretty crombo.
It's like a band at the name.
Yeah, that's actually why I wound up,
um,
heading out to California.
I had to take a little break for my neighborhood.
Uh-huh.
Yeah, it was pretty intense, man.
This dude, um,
all right, there was a gang on my block called the Hitman.
And this is back, and, you know,
I remember them from the 70s through to the 80s.
I mean, this is when they still used to wear colors.
You know, patches on the,
in fact, the Puerto Rican gangs looked more like
bikers, like Puerto Rican bikers,
without bikes back then, like they all had like patches
and jeans and like MC boots,
and, you know, they'd wear like the F-True Pats
and with total old school, you know,
like, you know, wolf tails and shit, you know,
like the fur collar.
This is like ridiculous.
If you look on the old YouTube,
and then old photos of New York gangs would be like,
oh, okay, that's what he's talking about.
Anyway, yeah, these guys were fun.
Yeah, these guys were fucking,
there was no joke.
And one of the Hitman was Pigman,
and he, you know, they did hits.
They weren't called the Hitman, you know,
because they, you know, wrote hit songs.
You know, they, you know,
they beside selling heroin,
they did hits and,
pigman, I'd known about him,
my whole child,
he was like a lower-yside myth,
like, you know, everybody had heard of him,
but no one knew, you know,
because if you saw him,
most likely the last thing you saw,
you know,
but he would wear a pig's mask.
That's why he was called Pigman,
and he would pull up in his blue and over,
and fucking blast you with a shotgun.
And it was that simple.
And they actually kicked in a friend of mine's door
and put shoties and people's mouths
and guns to their heads,
whereas Harley and one of the skin head apartments
looking for me,
and they came to my squat,
pulled someone into a corner,
and put knives to their throats,
which apartments Harley in,
and Pigman was cruisin' by my friends
with the mask on,
and didn't see me,
so kept driving, I guess.
So it was real.
And I'm like,
I was like,
15, you know,
I mean, I'm 15,
I got fucking pigman looking for me.
I mean, that's fucking no joke.
This is Pigman motherfuck, you know,
Pigman!
You know,
I'm like,
telling the locals,
shit man, my mother lives on 12th street.
We know what the fuck I don't know.
What about her?
I don't worry about your mom,
everybody loves your mom.
This is not personal, man.
There's money on it all.
You know, this is business.
But you should get out of here, man.
You should hang low.
These are your four to recon brothers telling you that.
Yeah,
like the guys in the block,
just people who know me from school,
like people like,
you know,
my friends on cools and shit like that,
like,
you should get the fuck out of here.
I'm like,
you know what I think I'll will.
Yeah.
So that's just,
that's because you beat somebody up.
Yeah,
I used to,
I used to get in a lot of fights,
and I used to also,
you know,
yeah,
I beat someone up.
And it turned out he was a,
it was this guy who was a,
a owner of one of the after hours clubs.
I'm a lower East side.
And a lot of these after hours clubs,
like,
you know,
saved the robots and the pyramid,
and all these other places they had,
like,
you know,
they were the late night free clubs,
where everybody would go like to a six in the morning,
and they would all be doing blow and doing coke.
So I guess that's how they knew the hitman,
because they all used to all the club freaks used to buy all their drugs from the Puerto Rican and the neighborhood.
So we were kind of fucking up their business too,
because we were like,
fucking up all the,
all the new freaks that we started to come to the lower East side,
all the new white people that we were like,
you know,
fuck,
we just made this motherfucking neighborhood safe.
Now you motherfuckers all think you just,
the gangbusters like,
you're all just a flood this fucking fuck this.
There's our neighborhood now.
You know,
so yeah,
you know,
I was an asshole.
I mean,
I have to admit that,
you know,
look at back if you know,
if you ever kind of met up,
you have to be able to say,
yes,
I wasn't an asshole,
you know,
but that shit,
yeah,
pig man was no joke.
And I went to California,
shit died off,
I came back.
Dude,
you went to California,
and I was reading that part of the fucking,
yeah.
What in God's name is going on?
Yeah.
Dude,
talk about the facts.
Yeah,
man,
we were living in an abandoned brewery.
There was,
you know,
couple hundred kids living there probably.
We were all living in the actual
facts that they used to have.
The rubber coated square rooms,
like with a man holigan and an out of,
and you know,
we were living in the,
air vents.
And yeah,
I was fucking crazy,
man,
and everybody was fucked up on drugs.
Everybody was runaway.
Everybody was,
you know,
it was,
what it means is me about the 80s,
is the lawlessness,
you know,
in New York and in San Francisco,
like you could really get away with just about,
fucking anything,
and there would be like no police,
involvement,
no repercussion,
you know,
I mean,
you'd get into a fight and the shit could go on for,
half a fucking hour,
like from one area to another,
and back and forth,
you know,
you're guns,
oh,
fight.
Yeah,
like,
I mean,
you would fucking start fighting on that.
You know,
you could start fighting on that.
you could end up on first to have a new,
over on seventh,
then back over to Aidstreet and back down to,
Avenue A and it's like mad,
screaming and,
you know,
stabbing,
and bottles breaking and no cops,
you know,
that was like,
I mean,
shit happens now,
man,
you fart to fucking loud on the street here.
You got arrested.
You know,
you know,
you're 15 years old.
You're in a,
you know,
you're in a fact.
Yeah.
In San Francisco with a bunch of,
everyone's run away.
run away for everybody's,
the...
yeah.
Mad Crystal,
Mad...
Fucken shooting and Crystal left right front and center dropping.
Look with acid in their eyeballs.
Yeah.
I was,
How's that even, like,
How do you process that?
And the other weird thing is,
is like,
you're surviving,
like,
yeah.
you're,
you're getting food somehow, right?
Yeah.
You're stealing food.
You're lifting your food.
You're lifting, paying handling, and mugging people.
You know, figuring it out, figuring it out.
And that's what everyone in this fat these days are doing.
Yeah, well, I mean, there was only a couple of us
that were out mugging people because there was only
like me and Mark Dagger and a couple of other people
who were like hard asses, everybody else was either
out, paying handling or turning tricks.
You know, it was like, you know, you either out mugging
someone, suckin' a dick, or begging for change.
You know, and we, did you just think like,
okay, this is what life is like?
Yeah, that's what life was like.
You know, I remember like eating it soup kitchens,
you know, with adults and I'm like 15.
And that being weird and almost getting into fights
with like dudes who were like X-cons
and you know, like dudes who had just got out of prison
who were like to them.
They were still in the prison lunch room.
You know, and to me, I'm just like trying to,
you know, get some food, you know.
And yeah, it was pretty intense, you know.
I mean, but to be fair, I had a great fucking time.
You know, I mean, I had a lot of fun, you know.
The, the, the, the, the bartering, the violence, the drugs.
I had a fucking blast.
I, would I recommend any of it?
No, would I wish it on my kids or my worst enemies?
No, did I have a great time?
Yes.
You know, I had the, how I fucking made it.
I don't know, but, you know, I guess it's, I guess,
is that like when people talk about,
well, when people say to me, oh, I think this is the same thing
because I'm sitting here going to happen that before.
But I guess, yeah, no, dude, people I think about like being
not think about the most intense situations you've been in.
It's like the adrenaline, the fucking, like dude,
the last time I got in like a real fucking crate,
you know, not the last time, the third or fourth to last time.
I got in a really bad violent situation.
Like, one, it's in the book when I got, had like,
that I fucked up this dude who was in a gang.
And the next thing I know I got like 30 dudes fucking coming
after me with pipes, bads, bop, bop, bop, bop,
smashing out our windows.
And I'm running into the crowd of them to save a friend of mine.
Now see, like, dude, I was fucking like high for like a week
off of the adrenaline.
And then when I finally came down,
I was like, whoa, what the fuck was that, man?
I could have died, you know, but like for literally a week
after that shit, I was just like, yeah, I fucking bring it.
You know, and, and, you know, that's like,
but that's the difference between certain type of people.
Like, you know, I will run into a fucking violence
to save a friend.
Yeah.
And a lot of fucking people that I grew up with will fucking
punk out, I've seen people that I respected.
Fucking run and leave their friends behind.
And there's some real pussy shit, especially when they're trying
to be all badass skinheads, get to, you know,
oh, yeah, something down.
Are you a nun, but a bitch, you know?
And, hey, man, and, you know, and that's one reason why I'm really
fucking proud to be here, you know, because it's like, you guys,
one of the things I respect the most is someone who will put
themselves on the line for someone else.
Like, when you will put your own life at risk for another
person, there's nothing more admirable than that.
So hats off to you guys and to all, all the military out there,
you know, serving this country and serving their brothers,
sisters, their families and everybody, you know, hats off,
man, it takes a lot of fucking balls and I respect.
And I'm not, you know, even law enforcement, you know, and I'm not
a big fan of the police in many circles.
I've become friends with a lot of cops since I started doing
jujitsu.
Do you two change a lot of things for the cops?
But, however, you know, I still have my reservations, but I
respect, again, anybody who is willing to put their life on
the line for others and for the greater good, you know,
and there's really nothing higher.
Yeah, you know.
Yeah.
Well, like obviously, I've got my work with the police and
they're the same way man.
They're, and they got a f-d-shhh.
They got one of the hardest jobs in all of the world.
No, no, look, I say that with, you know, a little bit
tongue and cheeky, you know, I mean, it's like I've grown up
always being on the shitty end of the stick when it comes to the
cops.
And, you know, still to this day, even like when I'm trying to get
something achieved and accomplished and I try to go to them
for guidance, they still look at me like they want to
slap the cuff on me.
More than fucking help me out, you know.
So, you know, but, you know, I'm just, but I do understand,
you know, what they deal with on a regular basis.
So, I get it.
But I also think that a lot of people are attracted towards
lines of work that give them a position where they can
abuse their position.
You know, I think that happened.
That's the human race, though.
I mean, it's not like a go do a ride along with some cops,
man.
I do it.
It is.
I couldn't do it, man.
But cops is just, what they deal with on a day to day
basis, what it does to the brain.
No, I mean, it looks, you know, hard ass job.
People don't understand.
I mean, it's like there's a certain level of, you know,
once you've seen some shit, you're always on that edge,
yeah, you know, and that fight that fight of flight, you know,
and unfortunately, they don't have the choice.
They have no choice.
They have to deal with it.
They've got to fight.
So, you know, so, and they got to protect, you know,
to, of course, you see, oh, we always see the negative thing of
cops, but they're trying to work within certain guidelines.
And that makes you the heart.
And at the end of the time, they're going, no, hey, sir,
please put the bat down, put the knife down.
That's what they're doing.
I think I said, sucks, you know, sucks to hard ass job.
Hard ass job.
But, you know, again, I got, you know, I also got to play,
I got to keep my one foot grounded in the streets.
I still have my, you know, you were, yeah,
your condition, yes, from your childhood, yeah.
That the man, you were on the other side,
you were on the other side, man.
You're on the other side.
And so now that's how your condition is.
We just, just like when they, when they see you,
well, I don't know if they see you now.
Well, you know, yeah, things are a little different now,
but, you know, hey, you know, what the fucking you're gonna do?
Well, I'll tell you what I do.
When the cops tell you do something.
Oh, I do it.
I don't fucking run.
I'm like, look, obviously.
No problem.
Not, not, no problem.
That's how you, that's how you make friends.
Yeah, I see my stupid fucking friends were like,
yo fuck that, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck.
It's like, fuck this problem.
All you had to do is say, yes, sir,
how fucking difficult is that?
You know, motherfucker, you that stupid.
Man, we haven't even gotten to like the Chrome Mags yet.
Have we?
Who the Chrome Mags?
Oh, yeah.
Like put together the first album, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Shit.
So,
you guys finally get together.
Here we go, back to the book.
It been three years since Paris and you,
so Paris, the guy was,
he was the guitarist from the Chrome Mags.
He hooked up and started writing November 2nd, 1984.
And on February 16th, 1985,
the Chrome Mags went into high five studios
on 27th Street and Park Avenue recorded 12 songs,
the Age of Coral cassette,
which is released on CD called Before the Coral.
Yeah, that was the original version of the album
before we actually went and recorded the album,
Age of Coral.
So that's 84.
Yeah.
That that's going down.
Yes.
And that's a good recording.
I have that too.
I actually like it a lot better than the album I was telling you before.
I can't tell if I, I, I,
I like it so much.
I've recorded my head that I expect little things
that aren't there.
And so I, I like the first one better
because I think it's this more raw.
It is more, you know, that it's more explosive.
I think it's more true to what we actually sounded like
when we played live, you know?
Yeah.
The other thing, the other one had,
you know, a lot of productions shit that I wasn't too happy about.
But yeah.
So now this is where now you think the story has been crazy so far.
Echo, I'll just throw you into the bus right now.
The story has been crazy.
Now it goes just takes another kind of,
what I, I consider it's an even more, more bizarre turn
than everything we've talked about so far.
So going back to the book,
I was into vegetarianism,
but it took me a while to get into Krishna.
At first, John, this is the singer from the Chrome AG
or one of the singers that sang into Chrome AGs,
John and me used to go to the trucks
where they served free food and Tom,
Compton Square Park, which was a big hangout back in the day.
And everyone used to go there and hang out.
A lot of hard-cork kids did.
I mean, I was living in a squat.
I was vegetarian.
I had no money and here was free vegetarian food.
They also had a few preaching centers on the west side
that me and John used to go to to eat,
but still it took a while to give a fuck about what they were saying.
I was there for the free food.
I wasn't looking for religion.
I was just hungry and trying to survive.
We would always show up late.
John would tell us when the good time was just to get the food,
after the reading and preaching and everything.
But over time, I really started getting into the philosophy.
In the beginning, people didn't take John and Krishna
seriously.
It was kind of something the hardcore scene laughed at.
But as my friends and me started getting into Krishna,
it started to change.
So you guys started getting into Harry Krishna?
Yeah.
Yes.
Which is pretty funny looking back now.
Tell me the fundamental philosophies.
I mean, obviously,
Harry Krishna's are vegetarian.
Yes.
Because they don't want to hurt animals.
Actually, it's more to it than that.
It's actually not why it's because now I'm going to start fucking
and talk another shit.
Well, give me a little bit of it.
It's a big thing that they only eat food that are
awful to God and you can't offer God a riding carcass to eat.
OK.
There's nothing to have to do with like,
hey, we don't want to hurt things.
So there's all this carmic stuff.
If everybody likes to not make more karma for themselves,
good or bad.
See, that's what I'm saying.
Like, this is why this is why it gets more bizarre to me.
Yeah.
Because you try to get to the other side.
It's more karma for yourself.
See, that's the thing is with the amount of karma I had
over the end of it.
Heated for myself.
I was trying.
But this is where it gets even more fucked up and twisted.
Because you got me and my friends who were like recovering
skinheads, like a better way of putting it.
You know, dudes who used to go out and get in like,
you know, 20 fights in a night.
You know, put 19 people in ICU just because, you know,
just walking from the east side to the west side.
What you looking at?
Buh, you know, fuck you.
All night, just fucking wild.
And, you know, and then all that shit with pig man
and this and that and God knows how many other things.
How many bodies I found and came across
and, you know, how many, how much madness I had experienced, you know,
like we were talking about, you know, it's like sometimes, you know,
when you're dealing with life and death on a regular basis, you know,
sometimes you're like, you know, God, you start calling out to God.
You don't even know what the fuck God is.
And you're just like, God help me, God, you know, please, you know,
God makes help.
It's the call of desperation, you know.
And I would have never been into Christianity and this and that.
I just, it all just sounded like a bunch of bullshit to me.
And here I was actually hearing some things that made some sort of sense
to my teenage mind, you know, karma.
Woo, you know, all these other things that like we're like resonating with me,
you know, and it's like, I needed that shit, you know,
I needed some sort of guidance and had I not had something like that.
I mean, it could have been fucking Buddha, it could have been whatever, you know,
but I needed something that was greater than you need some kind of guidance and
your little favor.
I needed guidance, I needed a whole discipline.
I needed hope.
Oh, yeah.
You know, and when I started going out to their farm for a little while,
like they were getting up at like five, 30 in the morning and meditating and
watching the sun come up and like it was like this whole, you know,
going from like being like hunted by the gangs in my neighborhood to that,
it was just like, I can't even really explain it.
It really, it was like, I don't know how to fucking put it, man.
It was just like it was like, here I am at peace.
Yeah, I was going to say it.
He sounds like people like Buddha first thought like, wow.
You know, so that, but then the more I was involved in it, the more I seen, you know,
that people in religions in general are typically a bunch of fucking hypocrites.
You know, you get a lot of people preaching a lot of shit that they don't all fucking
follow and all rules don't really fit all people.
You know, every human is different and not everybody can follow the same guidelines.
And when the thing is started becoming just belief, what the fuck is belief anyway?
It's just what you choose to believe, you know, unless it's like this is real, you know,
this is really cutting my face.
That's really blood.
This is, you know, I really have to eat food and breathe air.
Belief is just that, you know.
I still have, you know, my spiritual inclinations, I still believe in some sort of,
I don't like to say that word God anymore because I don't, I don't have that overview
that I know any fucking thing.
I just know, I know I got a lot of love in my heart for the people I care about.
And I know I want to try to do good things, you know, of done enough bad things.
I'd like to try to prevent some people from experiencing what I experienced and at the same
time I would like to share the great experiences that I had with people.
You know, well, one of the, one of the great experiences and one of the things, the great
things that you share to people is that, that out.
That outman will go to here, going back to the book, the age of core.
Some would call it one of the most, if not the most influential New York hardcore and crossover
albums.
It was recorded in mix in under 100 hours over a 14 day period January, February 1986,
at East Side Sound by Steve Remote and Chris Williams in our manager and so called producer,
but it was really Steve.
So 86 comes around and you guys put together the age of core.
Yeah, this is the one that got released on a big show.
Yeah, it was like the first hard work.
That's real fun.
Yeah, it was the, I probably one of the first hardcore records to ever be put out on a real
major label like something that wasn't like discord or slash records or something underground.
Yeah.
And now this is, you guys are, you guys are starting to get a big draw.
I mean, huge draw outside of New York City.
Yeah.
And we went on to play with many other metal bands around that time.
The whole crossover thing.
Right.
So yeah, for those of you that don't know crossover when he's talking about that, that's the
crossover from hardcore to metal.
And kind of combined.
It was really when the metal head started discovering hard when people like Metallica started
wearing GPH shirts and coming to see the Chrome eggs.
Yeah.
When people like anthrax started daring to come to CBGBs.
You know, and that's real quick.
But the hardcore bands started getting more metallic.
Well, yeah, because like metal head started shaving their heads and getting into hardcore.
Like the kid like yourself, like kids who had been listening to Van Hale and then they were
little who started getting into hardcore bands started getting more and then they're
not know.
We definitely.
Yeah.
I mean, they're not.
A lot of people tried to jump ship.
You know, I guess, you know, I don't, I see that kind of jokingly.
But I guess, you know, it seemed like there was more opportunity to actually make a living
bigger audience, you know, actual record deals, you know, Pantera.
Pantera.
Fucking great band.
Because Pantera.
I mean, one of my favorite bands probably, you know, dime bag, fucking love
that dude.
And one of the worst tragedies imaginable to a music is, well, the fuck got shot on
stage, right?
And by a fucking psychotic fan.
I mean, it's like, you know, but the fuck man.
Yeah, that was awful.
You know, yeah.
Yeah.
It's, yeah.
I mean, not to not to talk about not to get into, you know, the whole Kromag beef and
this and that.
One thing I will say is, you know, it really bothers me that dime bag died like that
and that they never, because I know they would have buried the hatchet by now and they would
have done an amazing reunion tour and they would, they would have just kicked this shit
out of everybody.
And they'll never have that opportunity.
Now, because he was robbed from us and to know that my band or such a bunch of stubborn
immature, fucking old assholes that we could never actually embrace each other purely
based on what we did achieve together and how many fans would be so happy.
You know, because once once you're gone, you're gone and, you know, it's just very rare
that four or five people will have that chemistry for a moment in life.
So, you know, just based on that alone, it's pretty fucking sad and pathetic.
Yeah.
And it's weird run that you guys had because you guys, you guys, you guys were on the first
yeah.
I mean, yeah.
And when I, you know, when I remember you guys touring and I didn't see you on the
age of coral tour, because that wasn't really fast touring.
You went, yeah.
But I just did it.
Yeah.
And I'm particularly sure you see you.
But I saw you on the best wishes tour, which was the next album that came out.
You guys were big.
I mean, you guys were in a flu, just to kind of put it perspective for people, like,
I think the places where I saw you play, and this is kind of a national brand is the
house of blues.
If you've ever been to a house of blues, that's how you play.
That was like, that's the house of blues.
It's the place to play there.
I'm not.
Okay.
I didn't know you actually played there.
But like that kind of venue.
So that's, in my mind, you know, that's a band that, when you're playing places that
size, you can make a living, and if you keep going and stay consistent, you know, you
can do fairly well for yourself.
Now, this is the, so, you know, age of coral comes out.
You guys are popular.
You're, you're, you're getting after it.
You're, you're filling up places.
Best wishes, you're filling stuff.
You're headlining.
Best wishes.
But you're playing with motorhead, too, before.
Yeah.
You're supposed to play with black Sabbath one time.
By the way, that would actually be the ultimate show of all time for me.
I have to fucking agree from my favorite black Sabbath.
That's just, that's not it.
Yeah.
That would be the best.
Black Sabbath to show up.
Yeah.
There were some issues.
That, yeah.
And you have the flyer, the flyer, the buzz, the buzz, the buzz, the buzz.
Dude.
You know, I made it on a flyer with black Sabbath motorhead.
You know, I was looking that out.
But here's the crazy thing.
I was reading the book.
I couldn't believe this.
You come home from those tours.
Yeah.
And you have no money.
And you hear this.
This is kind of like a rock and roll myth, right?
Oh, the guy signs the contract, the producer.
And I watched a bunch of programs about this.
And what the, what the record companies do is they say, hey, look, we're going to give
you a $100,000 advance for your next album.
And then you go awesome.
So they give you a hundred grand.
And you start spending it and then they back charge you for your studio time and the
promotion.
And you know, literally at the end, you haven't even gone on tour.
You owe them $20,000.
$20,000.
You're working to pay it off.
Yeah.
They lent you this money with interest.
And so that's the kind of shit that was happening with you.
And you come back off these tours, your famous.
Because also at this time, now that I think about it, you and the Chrome ads, you guys
were like on the cover of like the metal magazines.
All those stupid metal magazines, man.
You'd be like Skid Row on one page and awesome.
Yeah.
I thought fuck.
I see on one page me on the next.
Yeah.
So you were there.
I mean, yeah.
We were on the cuss.
We were all right about to break it.
You know.
And you were still broke.
You were coming up with those tours.
It still would be living on the streets.
I would, I would be coming off those tours and trying to figure out where I was staying
or I'd be showing up at my grandma's house.
You know, or I'd be like, you know, yeah, we got pretty fucked.
You know, you don't know what you don't know.
You know, that's so it's like when you're a kid and you ain't got no guidance, nobody
looking out for you.
You know, you make a lot of mistakes.
And also back then, they had a much better monopoly.
Yeah, they're completely inferior.
They're nowadays.
You can say, oh, you know what?
I'll just make my own record.
And I'll be able to distribute it through the internet and social media all the
other stuff.
That would have been helpful in those days as far as, you know,
but, you know, I think that the internet and everything is also really kind of
fuck music up because it's like people don't have to have any lineage or any connection
to their roots anymore.
It's like people who don't know anything can just Google it and cut it and paste it
and call it their own.
And the next thing you know, they're an artist and it's like, no, you're not a fucking
artist.
You're a fucking cut and paste and motherfucker who hasn't ever actually experienced
a fucking thing.
And you don't even know the history of what you're imitating.
You just know that you're into it right now.
So you're imitating it right now.
The other crazy thing is, you know, it was hard to get like these records when I was
a kid.
Yeah, you had to know.
You couldn't order them.
You had to like get somebody that was going to go to New York and hey, if they have
this album, can you pick it up?
Where you go to Blika Bobbs and yeah.
Yeah, you go to Blika.
And it was like that.
You couldn't just, but nowadays, you can, if you say, oh, the Chrome Mags are cool because
I heard a song.
You put them into Google, you get Chrome Mags, you get every other band that's been
related to them, you get bounce, it sounds like them and you can just download them all
immediately if it's no factor.
It is kind of crazy.
That's why for me, like, how many record total record albums I had and I loved music,
I probably had like 80 records, right?
80 records.
All my computer right now, all my phone.
I probably got 10,000 records, no, Kaka all kinds of songs, right?
Every band that's ever existed, I got them on my phone.
And you would shit if you saw my fucking album, you would shit.
You would fucking be like a kid in the candy store man, you're fucking because I got everything
from back then I got all, I got like motorhead test pressings.
I got like, you're one of those guys because I get test pressings.
I was watching some video with Rollins, because you know Rollins has, I do get my first
single.
I think he might have one of the most epic record clips.
He likes weird stuff.
He likes stuff that like, I wouldn't want it, but he's got, you know, first pressing test
pressing.
He's a freak.
Yeah.
And he's got money too.
Yeah, he's a good dude.
Yeah, yeah.
Some people people.
You end up trying to, trying to sue a little bit, I think you try to sue the record
company or something.
You end up just going into legal costs.
But we were trying to, because we were trying desperately to get off of our record
label and get away from our management because we got to a certain point where we were
just on the verge of blowing up and profile was still treating us like chumps.
We weren't getting no money.
We weren't getting anything.
We were getting treated like fucking dog shit.
And someone who was working at Electra was interested in signing us.
So we were like, Electra, Metallica.
Here's our fucking shot.
So we like got to do it.
His profile was like, oh, metal is right?
No, profile was actually a hip-hop.
So they did with us was really kind of out there out there because they had, you know,
they're big bands.
Like, century media.
That's came after no, profile was big for a run DMC.
That was who they're, and then like, Rob base.
It takes two, that was like there was big.
That was their hits.
Run DMC was their main shit.
Speaking of crossover.
Run DMC.
Yeah.
They brought the metal.
They got a riff.
I mean, you know, those guys were great, man.
Yeah, that was pretty cool.
I saw them play many times back in the day.
I remember seeing them with the Beastie Boys at the Garden and that, that was a fucking great
show.
It's fun, man.
It's like all the Beastie Boys brought all the white kids and run DMC, brought all the
black kids and the black kids who just walking around, robbing all the white ladies.
I've never been fucking laughing like fucking take off.
Like watching people just get yoked in the fucking aisles.
I like this shit as hilarious.
Yeah, that was funny.
So you're trying to get off that label and trying to get on to a lecture at damn.
Because a lecture was huge.
Yeah, yeah, that would have been a good move for us, but profile didn't like us and
they would have rather taken, you know, they couldn't offer them enough money to give
us our freedom.
They were like, fuck these days.
Yeah, we had some issues with some of them.
He had people there.
And then you end up with alpha omega.
Yeah.
And by the way, I didn't say this, but you sang on Best Wishes.
Yeah, I sang on like half the album.
Oh, God.
And then me and John both sang on alpha omega.
And I got to read this from the book because I got to kick out of it.
Oh, boy.
There he goes back to the book.
You know how you can always tell when a heavy band is starting to lose their edge when
they start using a fucking keyboard?
Yeah, we did that.
All right, to be fair, I was eating a lot of mushrooms that they were quitting session.
So like things sounded a little bit different to me and they were sounding, the keyboard
sounded cool, man.
I was eating all kinds of mushrooms and chicken mushroom tea and I was like, yeah, that's
it sounds cool.
Yeah, I have rolled with that, you know.
But see, at least I can look back and laugh at myself.
You know, it's like if you can't fucking laugh at yourself, man, you're an asshole.
And some other, I think I might have breeze through it, but there's another point where
you're talking about how spinal tapish, like, all this, I mean, even that spinal tapish, right?
We started to venture out.
Yeah, you know what I'm saying?
Yeah, you know, it's the stone hinge.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
So, and did you want to hear something really fucking funny?
I mean, me and Doug watched spinal tap with John one time, just just to show you a bit
about his intellect.
I, we're watching about halfway through that movie.
John turns to me and Doug goes, yo, man, these guys suck.
I've never even heard of them.
Why did they make a movie about them?
And then Doug just look at each other, like, this motherfucking thing, this is a real
documentary.
Oh, my fucking, anyway.
Sorry, I had it.
Hey, you know what, I've seen spinal tap twice.
Live.
I saw them once.
Yeah, yeah.
I have a spinal tap, like that.
Yeah, that's what's up.
I brought my wife and you know what, they play big bottoms, you know, they're all
played bass.
Yeah, yeah.
That's what it was.
That was a fucking brilliant, fucking movie.
No, but I remember like being in those clothes where you're trying to find the
stage, you're walking around.
You're just like, all right, Cleveland.
All right, Cleveland.
You're like fucking walking around.
You wind up outside the glove.
You're like, we're fucking the major.
Yeah.
Now, you're still struggling.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Before I get into this next chapter, I'm telling you that I had to lose a lot
of stuff from this era, because I have kids now, and I don't want them to know exactly
how insane things got, or to think I'm a worse piece of shit than they already will
or do.
But again, this is proof that you can plummet to the bottom of the worst depths of hell
and still come back and try to become a better person.
There was enough filth, drugs, or geez, violence, and crime during this period, to write
a book about nothing else.
As insane as it was, and as much fun as I thought I was having, deep down I was looking
for a way out.
I think that's why I took everything to such an extreme.
I don't think I cared if I lived.
There were times I don't think I wanted to.
I'm not proud looking back on it now.
If anything, I'm surprised I survived.
Heavy.
It's fucked up here and you read that shit, bro.
It makes me go up.
But yeah, man, it's true.
I've seen some of my friends that they start to get the same outlook.
They start doing shit that is not high survival rate activities.
It's like they're walking that line of, you know, what's kind of like you want to die,
but you're not going to take the pussy route and kill yourself.
So you're just going to do everything you can to kill yourself without actually putting
a rope around your neck.
So instead of putting a rope around your neck, you put a rope around your arm and stick
a fucking needle in it or smoke dust until the world is just a fucking illusion.
I'm going to read this right here because this is, you know, here you go back to the book.
At one point, I was broke a shit.
This is after you have three albums signed by a major record contract torn all over the
world, played with motorhead on tour.
Here we go back to the book.
At one point, I was broke a shit and I got busted shoplifting food at a supermarket.
I didn't have any ID.
So the kids I was with ran back to the house and came back with three of my CD covers
as ID.
I was sitting in this holding area in the back of the store and the store cops were looking
at me all confused.
They were like, this is your ID.
I was holding up pictures from the age of coral best wishes in Alpho, Maga and I was
like, see, look at the picture and look at my tattoos.
This is me.
They were like, you're kidding, right?
This is all the ID you got.
Yeah.
That's, yeah, I didn't even have a fuck.
I had no ID, I had nothing to do.
You know what else?
I just realized that I completely breased over is like I'm saying that you had this record,
you had this record, you had this record, you had this record, you had this record, you're
also a sick basis.
I mean, like an unbelievable basis.
You know, like, like, see, you had this incredible musical talent you played drums, too,
but I mean, your bass playing is a better drummer.
But that's, well, that's good.
But your bass playing is sick.
So you had all this talent and you had records and you had fans and you had all the
shit and you're still down in the down in the door.
Shoplifting to eat.
Shoplifting.
Fucking smoke and ice.
Dude.
Hey, man, you know it could have been worse, man.
I mean, look at fucking people like Jocco Pistores.
I mean, that motherfucker was like the most basis.
Yeah, like the, and Jimmy Hendrix, you know, he was the Jimmy Hendrix of bass and
look at Jimmy and him and it's like, you know, you can have all that talent and if you're,
you know, if you're suffering on the inside, man, you know, mean fucking Jocco, there's
another tragedy.
motherfucker got beat to death by a bouncer, you know, who didn't know who he was.
This is not this Jocco, this is, this is, this is, this is the place.
Jocco Pistores.
He actually got tried to get up on stage on a centanish show because he was friends
with centan and he tried to get up on the stage and he was so fucking messy at the time
that nobody could recognize him and the bouncer's threw him out and he kept being
belligerent and he beat him to death.
You know, so it's like you can have all the talent in the world, but you know, it's
just, it's sad because really the people who are have that gift usually are people who
are really emotionally.
Well, that's why they have that gift because there's a fucking emotional.
You know, I think, you know, that can really become destructive if you don't have a positive
place.
Like if you're really, the only times in my life where I haven't been all fucked up on
drugs was when I had something constructive to do something that gave me a purpose.
And when you have that creative emotional self destructive thing in you because it really
can become self destructive if you don't have a place to put it.
I mean, shit man, if you wouldn't have fucking gone into the military, God knows what
the fuck you would have done with that intensity.
No, the military, I've talked about it.
You know, I mean, it's like you don't.
It's a beautiful thing.
It's a beautiful thing for me.
Yeah, I mean, it probably would have been for me too.
I just wound up.
But you know, instead, I wanted to be soundtrack to you.
But a lot of fighters, you know, you know, you have see fighters and stuff and a lot of
those guys have a rough time, you know, absolutely.
Because it's hard to be that type of an intense person and to go to such extreme emotional
dumps because, you know, one second, you're just a tough guy on the street.
The next second, you're a tough guy in front of fucking thousands of people and there's
lights flashing everywhere, you know, and then, you know, and then some people, it's
like your career is done and you're still that tough guy who still will fuck shit up,
but nobody gives a fuck and now if you fuck somebody up, you're going to fucking jail.
You know, and it's like, you know, and drugs become an easy way to deal with fame and
the confusion of popularity and the depression.
So, a heavy thing to go from to the silence of your room and your mind.
There's a buddy of mine plays in a band called Slightly Stupid and there's actually
a big band and they play in front, they're from San Diego and one of the guys and we're
just, you know, he's got a little kid, just normal guy, but he plays in a slightly stupid
and he was, you know, they just got back from tour and, you know, I just said something
to him, you know, how was it?
And he goes, man, it just never gets old, you know, get up in front of 10,000 people that
are singing your songs, man.
He said it's just like unbelievable.
I tell you, man, I haven't been in tour on tour in a really long time and I'm last time
I gigged out.
I think the last time I did a tour was like 2011 or 2012 and then a lot of shit went
to South in my life, go figure and I needed time to pull myself back up and get my
shit back together.
I'm going on tour in about nine days, I'll be playing in Berlin first, I'm gonna be playing
a bunch of shows in Germany, I'll be playing in Venice and Italy and I'll be playing in Switzerland,
I believe in Belgium and the UK.
I'm gonna have about 12 or 13 shows in 13 or 14 days, I'm really, really looking forward
to this.
I'm not looking forward to driving five, six hour drives, I'm not looking forward to not
sleeping in my bed, I'm not looking forward to not waking up next to my wife, I'm not
looking forward to all that shit but I am really fucking looking forward to doing my thing
again.
I got so involved with jujitsu and teaching jujitsu and stuff that music actually started
to take kind of a back seat, especially when I had my kids and I really couldn't tour
and stuff anymore.
While I was a choice I made, I could have done whatever the fuck I wanted but I chose
to be there for my kids.
Now they're older and so on and life is as made this possible to do again, I can't wait
man.
This affecting people the way you do with music, it's a, you make a connection, you know,
you know, look man, I'm sitting across from you now because we're fucking out of my
minute, 30 fucking years ago with that fucking tell you, it's bad ass, you know.
It's good.
You're going back to book here, you're at that point, you know, this is the same time period
where you're getting arrested for shoplifting and here we go, I was in a state of depression
and the drugs helped me stay in it.
I was trying to get better as far as wanting to get off drugs at least half the time and
I would for a few days or a week or so here or there but I was just too depressed and one
thing would lead to another then back into the abyss, the death spiral into emptiness,
nothing and nowhereness.
Of course I was all into Alice and chains and nine inch nails and all that fucking depressed
drug music but even as fucked up as I was, there was this wheat grass juice stand on
mission and I'd still make sure to go get a shot of wheat grass juice every day because
I figured hey at least wheat grass juice is equal to eating tons of vegetables.
Well I was trying to sort of stay healthy like I was like okay I know I'm not eating
regularly and I'm not eating very well so let me at least try to, you know.
And this is this is nothing that's, again I think this shows your state.
I go to my kids' doors heroin and fucking wheat grass juice.
I'd go to music stores and pretend I was gonna buy shit and just play instruments.
I'd hang out as long as I could and then leave.
I actually got offered gigs while I was playing in stores.
I got offered gigs for doing sessions for different producers but I'd be all fucked up
and missed the session because I wouldn't know what day it was and then realize a day or
two later I'd booze their business card or whatever.
So you just can't get your shit.
Yeah, I was really just, I was pretty fucking, it was embarrassing.
And that was by the way that was taking place out on the West Coast.
Yeah, yeah, no.
And then just go.
It sounds like, yeah I went to San Francisco to get clean off drugs.
It's like the worst city of fucking, I don't you ever heard of Idaho?
Yeah, I'm on Tana.
Then you move back to New York and now you start kind of bringing it back together.
I'd go for these long runs at night because I couldn't sleep.
Your girl lived down by the Twin Towers and I'd run from there to central park and back
on the way.
It stopped by Coney Island High on St. Mark's place to see you was hanging out for a few minutes
say hi.
Then keep running up town to the top of the park.
I'd run a few laps around the reservoir and then turn around and head back down on the way
back down.
It stopped by Coney Island High again and there would be the same people.
Everyone was pretty much in the same place, just slightly more shit faced and it hanged
for a few more minutes and then keep running.
It was kind of good to see that as I was getting my shit together to see all these people
not really doing anything but standing around getting fucked up as they got older and
did nothing with themselves.
It gave me motivation to keep my shit together.
So yeah, that's when I started pulling myself back up.
And one of the things that helped out with that.
First of all, you guys got death jam.
You guys got signed a death jam?
Is that right?
We had a big-gave you an advance of it.
Yeah, we got an advance to record something for them and then the deal wound up falling
apart so we wound up being left with the recordings in our possession that we were able
to then put out ourselves.
What album was that?
Revenge.
Okay.
Which I thought was actually a really good album but it is what it is.
The shit never managed to stay together.
That band just had fucked up karma.
And around this time you started your Jiu Jitsu career.
Yes.
Yeah, well I've said it many times man, hands-o really fucking saved my life in a lot of ways
because even though I was doing those 12 mile runs and shit like that, I've worked my way
up to really doing long ones.
I started off doing like three or four miles.
I got into it.
But I would still have my moments of depression and I'd want to get fucked up and stuff.
But I had Jiu Jitsu.
And I was living in my rehearsal studio.
I didn't even have a fucking shower.
I was like bathing on the roof with filling up two gallon buckets.
I'd go up there with like four or five buckets and just like bath.
I was living in the rehearsal studio.
I wasn't, you know, life was not great but every day I'd go and I'd train.
And that gave me a place to find myself again.
When was this?
What year?
It was like January February of 96.
When I came back, I discovered MMA from UFC 1 and 2 when I was on the West Coast.
I'm like, what the fuck did he just do to him?
I probably hit thousand people in the face.
I'm a kick thousand people in the head.
Headbutt didn't bitten whatever.
I ain't never seen a triangle, choker.
The fuck is an arm bar.
I made up my mind.
This is when I was still on smack.
I was like, I made up my mind.
I was like, yo, if I ever get the chance to learn that shit, I'm going to fucking learn
that shit.
So when I came back to New York, I just kept going through like black belt magazine, kung fu
magazine.
One of these motherfuckers got to move right here sooner or later.
This is New York.
I mean, they can't all stay in California.
They're fucking crazy.
They're like a very big family.
One of them's going to have to move out here.
So Hanzo, I found an ad.
Hanzo Kukk, Gracie Kukk, it said Gracie Kukk, or you're still with his old partner.
Yeah, man, I went down and I met Hanzo and that changed my life.
That was 21 years ago.
And a lot of people are, they think, I don't know why they think it.
But they think Jiu Jitsu is going to be, you know, kind of, when you walk in, it's going
to be intimidating.
And I could tell from the way you wrote about it, Hanzo, it's just like, hey, what's up,
right?
You know, it was a little bit fun.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He just makes you feel so welcome and so at home.
And he's, you know, I can say this and mean it, you know, I really love that man.
You know, he was there for me through some of the toughest parts of my life and he didn't
give up on me and he believed in me.
And sometimes really that's all you need is somebody to believe in you and not give up
on you.
And, you know, when I got arrested in 2012 and I was all over the papers and the news
and everywhere, you know, they, a lot of people were shying away from me.
Let's just say that.
For those of you who don't know, I got jumped by about five or six guys.
I wanted to bite a nice chunk out of one of their faces and slice in a couple of them
and poke in one of them.
In the process of me getting jumped, I got 40 stitches.
I was stabbed and, you know, a lot of people were like, you know, I can't believe he did
that.
I'm like, I'm like, did what?
You know, got jumped.
You know, I got fucking jumped man and fucking tell me about slicing cut and stabbing.
Fucking tell me shit about shit until you got five, six mother fuckers trying to take
your fucking life.
You know, then you can start talking about how could you this, how could you fuck you?
You know, you got five dudes kicking you in your face, stomping on you.
You had better be willing to stab bite or rip someone's balls off.
You know, that's what people don't fucking understand who have never experienced real violence
or real potential of death.
You know, when I first got into GiGetsu, it was all about the fighting.
You know, I was like, yeah, learn more ways to fuck people up.
Now I really, it's, it has nothing to do with fighting for me anymore.
I mean, I just love the art.
I love the relationships that I've made through the art.
I love sharing what I've learned.
If anything, I'm, again, you know, the fight of flight man, I'm way more likely to run
than fight at this point because I know how bad things can go.
You know, like, I actually, I might have told the story before.
There was a bad ass Marine and his name was DA.
That's what I've been called them.
And DA in the military, DA, start for short, for direct action.
But that was his initials too.
But it just worked.
And he looked like a superhero.
He's a total stud and he was a gangbanger from Texas.
And, but, you know, he'd join, he'd be like you, right?
But he joined, but he was a black kid, but he joined the Marine Corps.
And he was in force recon.
He was a total badass.
And I said, hey, man, you got to come and try to do two out.
And so he started training.
And like after like six months, he came up to me.
And I was like, hey, man, you know, because I was like still deploying.
And he, so I wouldn't seem a lot.
And I was like, man, how do you like to do two?
He was like, man, it's kind of fucked up.
And I was like, what do you mean, bro?
It's awesome.
He goes, you go, man, because I used to feel like a regal badass.
Now everybody, I see, I'm thinking, I might be a pussy.
So, yeah, man, it's funny.
It's very humbling, you know?
It is.
It's a very humbling game to play.
It really is.
But, you know, at the same time though, to me, it is, it is that though.
It is a game for me.
It's like, when I think of fighting or when I think of self defense, I believe in
jujitsu.
I mean, I am 100% of believer, but jujitsu is fun for me.
It's not about violence or self defense or fighting.
You know, because it's funny.
Yeah, because fighting and violence to me is about ending something.
Ending somebody, you know, I mean, because I know I could die.
I tell people a fucking time.
I'm like, you know, you don't gotta worry about like a, you know, a black belt kicking
your ass.
Because he's a black belt.
He's already matured past the need to kick your ass.
You gotta worry about that 90 pound motherfucker who will stab you without you even having
a chance to say dude, we don't need to have a problem.
You know, you gotta worry about that dude who's just so don't give a fuck that before
you even have a chance to say buddy.
You're sure it's wet and you're like, oh shit.
You know, and we've talked about that on here, you know, people say like, oh, I was
going to get in this guy, said something to my wife, what should I have done?
I'm like, just grab your wife, go home and buy her a nice dinner.
Yeah, so honey, I love you.
Yeah, you know, you know, it's not worth getting stabbed.
Yeah, it's not worth having to stab that junkie.
And then that either.
And I just know from my own experience that there's always the potential that I could go
to that extreme.
I don't think for one second because I'm a jujitsu black belt that like, I'm just
going to submit this guy and hold him down until the police get here because you know,
what, that guy may have through other friends standing in the shadows behind you or that guy
may fucking start stabbing you when you're looking to fucking you're trying to, you know,
submit him.
And I was suddenly like, why is my t-shirt wet?
What, you know, why is my pants wet?
Oh my God, that's fucking red.
So, I mean, that's just life, you know, that's why, you know, now as good as jujitsu
isn't as good as you felt doing it, you go on tour.
And just before we go on tour, you break up with girl at the time.
Yeah, blah, blah, blah.
Back to the book without the feeling of being needed.
I didn't feel, I had much purpose in my life.
I started falling back into fuck up mode. I was seeing several different chicks around
at that time.
Actually, what, so I don't have to rip it.
Hey, who wrote the book?
Yeah, I'm not sure.
I'm correct.
No, no, no, I'm correct.
You.
No, no, it wasn't even so much over just a breakup of a chick.
I was actually, I've been with this chick for a while and she had a daughter and I had raised her
daughter.
So it was like, you know, also not just feeling like betrayed and everything else that goes along with a breakup,
but as any father or stepfather, stepmother, you know, you have a certain, you know, you
develop love for a kid even if it's not yours.
You know, and that was really what was hard on me more than anything.
Because the mother was all fucked up on drugs and I had actually taken the kid from her and I was raising the kid for her
while she was off just being a fuck up.
And then the grandparents and me got in contact.
So I wound up doing, you know, what you do.
This is your family, this is your blood that you got to grow up with your family.
So that was, that's why I was struggling.
You know, it was because it was like, you know, I was, I never had a father that gave a fuck about me.
So every time I've been in a child's life, it is really mattered to me.
You like to be, to protect them because no one protected me, you know.
So that was why I really started to lose my way again, you know, because I was like, you know,
I don't have a purpose, there's no one for me to love, no one for me to care about and no one to feel.
My love, you know.
So yeah, the drugs started to fill in the gap again, you know, but fortunately that didn't last forever.
It's funny, man.
Some of the toughest motherfuckers actually got the biggest hearts and that's what a lot of people don't realize is, you know,
I'm sure that underneath this rugged exterior, you're quite a sensitive motherfucker.
You know, and, you're talking about me.
I'm talking about the guy behind you.
But, you know, I mean, seriously, some of the most elist motherfuckers I've known in my life have been some of the most sensitive people on the inside.
And I think that part of that illness has been a shield, you know, to protect themselves.
I know, and it probably was with me in a lot of ways, you know, if I wasn't as violent as I was, my neighborhood would have devoured me.
My environment would have devoured me if I wasn't as, yeah, so to your point, I agree with you.
And that's one of the reasons why I think going back to the Gitu, or boxing or wrestling or moi tie.
But when you, me, when we're kids, young men, going back to the whole thing about proving yourself, how you can prove yourself that you're tough.
When you're a kid, you go out and you fight and you beat people up.
You do stupid shit.
Do stupid stuff.
When you do Gitu, you know you're tough.
And you know, when you look at some guy in the street, like, hey, that guy might stab me, but if he doesn't, I'm going to, I will choke him out and take me 15 seconds.
So I don't have to do anything to prove that's why I think it's for me. And I think it was Tim Ferris asked me this question. He's like, what makes a man or something like that?
And I was like, to your point, for me, learning how to fight. So learn in Gitu, getting married and having kids and going into combat.
Those were the three things that I was like, okay, those three things, they were evolutionary to me.
And they were the three things that happened where I said, okay, I don't have to walk around trying to prove myself to this guy or that guy.
I know how to fight.
I don't even need to impress that girl over there. I got a girl.
You know, and I got, and I got mouths to feed so I can't act like an idiot.
And I know I'm not a coward.
And if shit goes down, I know that I will do the right thing. I know that 100%.
So those were the things that, to me, gave me like security as a man.
And so it's the same thing that you're saying.
You know, when we're young and you're out there just to try and prove and protect and shield your emotion.
You sense it too.
Yeah, that's what you do.
And so a good way to get over that, in my opinion, instead of having to fake it, you learn it for real.
Well, I wish I would have had you, Jitsu when I was young kid.
That would have helped me immensely.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, just one person I'll just mention briefly is,
Hi, I'm Gracie.
Another brother that I truly loved and, you know, he died in 2007.
He was a very tragic and here's a guy who was feared by 99.9% of the people that knew him.
And the 1% of the people that knew him fucking loved him.
And he was, you know, it's like, I'm saying, you know, you got these people who are fucking dangerous motherfuckers.
You don't even want to look at them wrong or for too long.
Yeah. But if they fucking love you, man, nobody better fuck with you ever.
No, then you got a part in the book where you're talking about. He came home. We fought in Japan.
Yeah.
Come home. He gives you, you know, you just had your first game.
It gives you two grand.
Yeah.
If we're not for nothing, just for being you.
And I didn't want to take it and he's like, shut the fuck up.
It's for the baby.
You know, I mean, I know my other fuck is my whole life.
You know, Dean Deen Lister, who's one of my parents and training partners and all that.
But he's got some funny stories about a high end.
And he's like, high end was fucking crazy.
Yeah.
He was a crazy motherfucker.
But to be honest though, I never had any crazy experiences with him because I feel like when he looked into my eyes, he knew he didn't have to prove anything to me.
Yeah. You guys kind of counter now.
What's that?
Yeah.
You know, it's kind of totally true.
Well, it was like, you know, I don't have to prove I'm a bad S to you.
You don't have to prove you're a bad S to me.
Let's just go out and chill.
That's good.
You know, we'd go out and like go to stupid movies.
Like, you know, go out and just work on his English.
You know, like, I'd never, you know,
Yeah, we had fun, you know, but we never like gotten brawls and got, you know, right.
But I mean, you know, he died.
Yeah, he got, he got a rest.
He was a bad S to me.
But, you know, again, it's like, you know, again, this is somebody who's very emotional.
And sadly, you know, like many people started using drugs as a way to deal with shit.
I guess I don't want to say to deal with shit, but maybe just as a little bit of an escape.
You know, you got to figure what kind of fucking, you know,
I mean, his favorite song was a boy named Sue by Johnny Cash.
And he really felt like he was living that life by being him, you know, with the name Gracie
and having to be, you know, always having to step up, always having to prove himself
and always having to be a bad S.
And I think that when you're forced to react and deal with things on that level all the time
and especially when you are actually a nice person at heart or a sensitive person at heart
when you're forced to always take that stance, that shit's a fucking tough one.
And, you know, that's a hard road to travel.
And, you know, I always have him with me.
I always have him sitting on one shoulder and hands on sitting on the other.
And, you know, when I get back on it, yeah, when I have big, when I am confronted by a serious shit,
I think about, you know, how one would react and how the other would react and then I try to find my own sense in there.
Yeah, I mean, it's high in this kind of a classic example of everything that we're talking about.
Yeah, for all, for all, practical purposes, you shouldn't be here right now.
You shouldn't be here either dead or in jail or whatever.
Yeah.
And he did some shit.
That was going down the same path, but he didn't make that.
You know, and that's, you know, that's the thing, man.
I feel really fortunate that I had music because I think that it gave me a tool to give me a paddle to row my way through the shit.
But it also came with its own load of shit.
You know, it's funny because, you know, I probably should have encouraged my kids to learn more about music and be more musical.
But I encourage them to be judicits who guys because I felt that, you know,
and then he's way safer.
He's gonna use his head to be better.
It's less off-road.
Yeah, that's about exit.
You know, you might get punching your face at Buds of Times, but at least you won't, you know, at least you won't be life punching you in your face.
Yeah, damn.
You know.
And there's, you know, all kinds of drama around it, you describe it again as spinal tap.
You know, just the rock and roll crap.
Cromags comes to an end for the most part, and you end up putting out a record hardly's war.
Yeah.
And, um, good, good rock and roll music, baby.
And now, and also during that time, you, you had some kids.
Yeah.
And, you know, you met the mother of your kids.
And she wanted to go to school.
And so you took off some time to just, yeah, I, I pretty much put my musical career on, uh, hold, you know, to take care of your kids.
Yeah.
And, uh, you know, one of the, one of the paragraphs that you wrote in here is awesome.
Um, talking about your kids and you say, and this is something I completely related to.
I'll tell you the first time I looked down at the other end of the mat and saw my boys training.
There was one of the greatest moments in my life.
My youngest son spent his birthday at the academy with George St. Pierre and all the rest of the fellas.
My eldest son had his birthday there with all the graces and about 30 kids, a full house and a cake with a hands-o-grace of your academy logo on it.
My sons have grown up with hands-o-like and uncle, Igor Hall's, Gregor, Daniel, Neiman, all the guys treat my boys like family.
They've known their instructor, Magnogama, since birth.
He came to the hospital to see them hours after they were born and hands-o, they have known since they were days old.
My eldest son, I have been on gray, howl and buses in the middle of the night, traveling hours away to represent RGA and team, and so greasy.
I have competed with my sons at National Enranct, grappling submission and GJ, one of my proudest moments was when we both competed at the same event.
My son took first place in his division and I took second place in the expert master's division in the 30 to 35 year old age bracket, although I was 44.
Hands-o-joked when he first saw my son, this is the proof that even though the fruit is rotten, the seed can still be good.
Yeah, we all know that one.
I guess it's when you see your kid doing anything that you love doing, and you see get to see your kid do it echo, you got that in your future.
When you see your kid, oh, you see your daughter on the mat right now, and that's cool.
When you see your kid training, and I'm to the point right now, my son's a big kid, he's 14, but I can roll with him, and I can legit roll with him.
He's taller than me.
He's 14 years, six foot, but 80.
Yeah, I was even hooked on me.
Yeah, and it's awesome when you get to train, and you know the other thing I noticed, I surf and when my son, as good as it feels to surf, like as good, there's a really good feeling you surf.
As good as that feels, it feels just as good, if not better to be paddling back out after catching away, even see my son just just, just getting after it, it's so awesome.
It's like, you know, I'll just like, watch him and you try not to like contain yourself, but it's so awesome.
It's so cool.
And you know, you see, and I got a bunch of daughters to and seeing them do when they, basically when you see your kids kicking ass, it's stuff, man.
It's nice.
And it makes you feel fucking good, you know, and you see them doing positive shifts, especially man, because God knows, I mean, I've done so much negative shit.
When I see my kids doing something positive, it's gonna feel really good, you know.
Going back to the book, talking about your dad, my dad, my father died from a fire.
So your father, and we didn't talk about him much, he'd gone away, and then he'd like had intermittent contact with you over the years.
Well, actually, once he was out of my life, I, you know, my mom left him when I was really young, you know.
I never saw him again, and I only actually spoke to him twice on the phone.
I got like one letter from him, and it was like one or two pages and a cassette of him playing guitar in a halfway house.
And basically, it's apologizing a lot.
And, yeah, you know, he knew he made a lot of bad choices, but it's fucked up though, because, you know, I mean, he was all, you know, he's fucked up on heroin, and he was in alcoholic, and he actually, like, kicked my mother in the stomach when she was just like very pregnant with me.
You know, and, you know, yeah, that's how much he didn't want me.
So, you know, it's a, it's a hard bill of swall, you know, when your father would rather be strong on heroin than be your father.
But, but I've managed to turn it around, you know, because I love being with not just my kids, but I teach the kids at the Hands of Gracie Academy.
And so the child that I didn't really have, I get to experience and live my cariously through all these other kids, and I get to be a role model to them, where as I didn't have any.
And, you know, I'm teaching these little boys and little girls how to defend themselves and how to fight and how to fight and have honor and how to lose with honor.
And, always to shake their opponents hand and say, good job, whether they win or whether they lose and how to have that respect for their opponent as well as themselves.
You know, when I teach these kids that, you know, they're like they say in jujitsu, there's no losing in jujitsu, you win or you learn.
And when I can take a kid who, you know, I've worked with a lot of kids who have, you know, varying degrees of spectrum disorders, whether they've autism or physical issues.
And to see the improvement that they make, not just at jujitsu, but in their social skills, you know, kids who are so insecure that they won't look at you.
And now they're making eye contact with you talking to you.
To like change your face and shaking your hand and their chest is out, your shoulders are back and they're not all.
You know, that, you know, so where I didn't have certain things, you know, at the end of the day it gave me something else.
It gave me the ability to value that, that relationship that you can have with children and a lot of people take for granted a lot of.
And you get disappointed with a lot of the parents that bring their kids to jujitsu because I feel like, you know, you're a lot of people hand their kids off to everybody else to teach them how to do everything.
You know, they don't work on stuff at home with them, they don't sit there and then teach them, they don't.
I get, you know, when you have a kid that doesn't know how to do a fucking jumping jack, you're like, what the fuck.
The, your parents do it you, they don't roll around with you, they don't teach you how to do a summer saw, I have to teach you which is your left and your right hand, like really, you know.
I don't think people value that time enough and I have said it before it's like, you know, your job made your career may change several times in your life, your spouse may not be your spouse for it, but your kids are always going to be your kids.
You really have to cherish and value that and the time that you spend with them because they'll always be your kids.
And that woman that you think you're in love with may leave you, you may fall out of love.
Your job may, you know, fold, but your kids, you're going to be your kids forever and they'll always need you, even if it's just emotionally to know that you're there.
Even if they're not seeing you every year or every six months or even if you don't speak to them, they, you know, you still have to be an emotional and spiritual backbone even from afar.
You know, I mean, I, you know, I forgive you, dad.
Yeah, you, uh, when he died, you actually flew down to Texas to, you know, basically to bury him.
And that, that was cool too.
I got finally meet his mother and learn about my father side of the family.
So there was some closure in that.
But I buried him myself. I wouldn't let anybody throw dirt on top of him.
And, uh, and as it turned out, I wound up buried my mom too with my, with my youngest son.
You're, um, you're now, you were kind of wrapping up this book when you were writing it.
And, and you know, you kind of closed it out.
And when you closed it out, you, you said this at the end of the book.
I guess part of being a father is learning how to eat a certain amount of shit. You do it for your kids, because they need you.
You just throw a little on a little salt and pepper and maybe some to basketball and smile, because you got to be there for them.
One thing my father said was, I've got all these years of experience experiences that I don't know what to do with.
And that's kind of how I feel with my boys.
How do I come in for a graceful landing after so much fucking turbulence in my life?
Hopefully I can guide them better than I was guided or at least maybe they will learn from my mistakes.
God knows I've made enough for everybody.
And if I remember correctly, that was the kind of the end of the book.
And then you were moving on and then, and then,
2012 comes along.
And there's like a hardcore fest.
You know, they're kind of bringing back like, I don't know if it's like a reunion fest,
bringing back a bunch of old bands.
And the Chrome Max, I should say a formation of the Chrome Max or members of the Chrome Max.
So I'm saying you can just call it the faux Max.
Let's just keep it real man.
They were going to play a fake ass band that does my songs with one of the old members.
And they were going to play.
Yes.
And you were like, okay, you know, I'm going to go check it out.
And you know what, I'll bring my base maybe get on stage.
But you know what, there was actually two members of the original group playing that night.
And my intention was to go and to extend my hand and say, you know what guys, I, I, I love you guys.
As much as I hate you, I love you.
You know, and just because I like to think that the end of the day,
two people that were friends can laugh at their own foolishness, you know,
I would like to think that people are able to look beyond their egos and, and forgive each other for being idiots.
Because God knows we all are at times.
So yeah, I went to that show with the hope of maybe even being invited up on stage to play a few songs with them.
And, well, the rest is history.
Yeah, you show up and, and here you go.
You're walking through the place you go to the, you get invited up the dressing room.
Hey, come say hi.
And then here we go back to the book.
As soon as I walked in, I literally walked into the room took two steps, the door shut,
and I got punched from behind.
Out of the corner, I, my eye, I could see was some big dude with tattoos.
It was like bam, he hit me hard.
I saw a bit of a flash bulb like you see when you get hit out of nowhere and you don't expect it.
And then it was a reign of fists and kicks that were coming from every direction of the room.
And this was a small room.
It's a dressing room.
And I started falling forward.
I fell onto the couch and rolled onto my back and started throwing up kicks just instinctively
to get people off me.
I was getting jump by at least four or five guys probably more.
There was a bunch of people in the room.
I think I counted seven or eight, although I couldn't even really count in all the chaos.
At that point, I reached into my pocket.
I had a little knife.
I pulled it out.
And it still had a cheeton.
So I just tried to punch the first person that was in front of me and get them the fuck off me.
Everybody started screaming.
I saw the door of the dressing room open and I started yelling security security.
And then I left.
And then I saw somebody pull the door shut.
And I thought to myself, fuck these dudes.
Their intention is to fuck me up and then I want no one to see it.
They're trying to beat this shit out of me.
And I've seen all these dudes in a pack kicking people to the point where their brains don't
fucking work.
And I knew right then if I didn't get the fuck out of that situation, I was not going to make it
home in one piece.
So I started flailing the knife as fiercely as I could just to get myself the fuck out of that situation
and toward the door.
Everybody screaming.
He's got a knife.
And I don't even know who it was or how they ended up in my face.
I guess it was when they were lunging in my arm.
I bit whoever wasn't front of my face.
I tore a big piece out of his cheek.
It was obvious it was a setup.
When I saw the door pulled shut, I was fighting for my life.
These guys wanted to kick the shit out of me, stomped me out and no one would see it.
There would be no whist witnesses and that would be that.
But that shit was not going down.
I bet the one guy's face.
I just tore his fucking cheek open right below his eye.
He was screaming blood was running down.
His face I bit someone's wrist.
As they were trying to get the knife out of my hand.
I just didn't bite it.
I tried to tear a piece out.
That's in the bouncer's broken to the room.
At this point, I was on the bottom of a pile trying to stab and kick and everybody started trying to grab my hand.
They're like, give me the knife, give me the knife on security.
I ended up getting dragged out onto the balcony, getting kicked.
I got one good kick and I write face and I'm surprised it did knock my teeth out.
One dude's scream, get on your stomach, get on your stomach, put your hands out and front of you.
This one big guy stepped on my back with both of his feet and another guy was looking at my face and squeezing my throat.
I don't know who the fuck was.
One guy looked at me and said, mother fucker, I'll kill you.
I'll kill you.
I will kick you in your fucking face until you are dead mother fucker if you don't stop moving.
I saw a peek from sick of it all in the crowd of people next to us with a freaked out look on his face.
He was gesturing with his hands from you to calm down and stop resisting.
You kept mouthing the words, hardly chill, hardly.
Please stop, chill, hardly.
That's in one guy said, put your hands out and front of you.
I asked her, you a cop, he was like, yeah, so I said, show me your badge.
And at that point, the boys in blue came running up the stairs.
I was like, fine, I'm not moving anymore.
I stopped my hands out and front of me, face down on the floor.
I still didn't know that I've been stabbed.
I got 40 stitches in my leg.
Thank God, it was in my leg.
Only the cops cuffed me, turned me over and that's when I saw the wound in my leg.
It was a grotesque.
The blood was bubbling out of it.
The fashion tendons were literally hanging out of my leg.
That's why people started saying that it was a compound fracture.
The cops cuffed me.
They put me on a chair, carried me down the stairs and put me in the ambulance.
It wasn't until I got cleaned up in the ambulance that they realized it was a stab wound.
That was fun, man.
So, and you kind of already talked about this.
I mean, they basically arrest you immediately.
Yes, total melee.
Yeah.
And I actually, when I got arrested, I thought we were all going to get arrested.
And there was this going to be like a bar fight.
Everybody got pulled in.
All these fucking guys started making statements that were basically that I've launched into the room and started just stabbing people.
So, you know, you got a room full of people saying he didn't, he didn't, he didn't, he didn't, he didn't.
And you got one amazing thing.
What the fuck happened?
And the fuck you think is going to get walked out in the cuffs.
Yeah.
And you end up on rikers.
Rikers island for those of you who don't know from around the world is jail.
New York, jail.
Rikers island.
And meanwhile, the media, you know, is putting out all these, the version that's get told to the media, which is that you instigated it and you are a horrible person, etc.
And now you got it rikers island.
Going back to the book, all night you'd hear people screaming and talking shit.
The youth offenders were in the same building as us right next door.
So all night you'd hear them screaming, suck my dick, mother fucker off fuck you up, suck my dick.
It was fun.
Fuck you, stop, fuck.
All night, fuck.
It was fun.
I just fucking cry, sir.
Riot cops came in all the, all fucking night.
Then as soon as the sun would start coming up and they'd finally shut up, the seagulls would start making noise.
It was nonstop.
Ironically, it was the best sleep I'd gotten in a while.
Ever since I started going through the bullshit with my ex.
My life had truly become a nightmare.
I remember at one point I was looking out through my window through the gates.
It was a beautiful sunny day and I could hear the birds and a butterfly flew past my window.
And I was like damn.
Right then, and there that butterfly represented freedom.
What I wouldn't do to be free right then, I had no idea what was going to happen.
My lawyer told me I was possibly looking at two and a half years in the house.
I was like, I'm just looking at the birds in jail.
Rough.
Yeah, I remember that butterfly, vividly.
Happy young.
Get that?
Yeah.
You get that?
I know what I'm about.
Happy young.
It's also a different person.
It was not in France.
It's like whatever island.
Yeah, yeah.
It was a prison island.
It was a fucking no joke.
No joke.
It was a no joke.
And we always find the good in things.
And you got a visitor that came to visit you.
A woman by the name of Laura.
Yes.
Who is now goes by the name of Laura Lee Flanagan.
And she was, she had interviewed you for what, for what website?
Well, she had a website called NewYorkNatives.com.
They did a lot of stories about things happening in the city and interesting people in
this net and blogs and stuff.
She interviewed me as a native icon because you wouldn't know it from looking at her
or by her career.
She's a lawyer, she's, you know, from the Aubrey side.
She's amazing.
And she used to be in the hardcore for a brief moment in her childhood.
So she knew of the Chrome, actually had seen us play.
And a friend of hers, they were doing, she did a story on C-squat.
Squat that I used to live in.
And it was really a good story.
It was very interesting.
And one of the people she spoke to around that time, said you should speak to Harley.
He used to live there and he'd be interesting for you know, for you to interview.
And she pursued it.
And we started talking, we did the interview.
And I started sending her some chapters of this book that I was still working on at the
time.
And I don't remember how exactly it came about.
I mean, she has a PhD and she's done a lot of writing and stuff in her life and a lot of editing
and stuff.
And she really enjoyed the book.
And I needed some help in the editing.
I mean, I have a seventh grade education.
So the book was basically one sentence when I gave it to her.
You know, she gets the award for like editing challenges.
I mean, it was, it was, it was, it was better tonight.
I was like, yeah, you edited the book.
And then we, because I was an English major too.
And we had a moment of like, I gave her a moment of mutual respect and an ad barration for
your efforts.
You don't know how much I would see.
I mean, this book, okay, it's like 300 pages.
It would have been a thousand pages.
And it was like I said, it was one sentence.
And we literally had to like, okay, we've got 10 stories about fighting now.
Can we lose these other 20?
Okay, we've got 10 stories about like almost overdosing.
Can we lose the other 30?
Okay, we've got, you know, so it was a, you know, I mean, it would have been a fucking endless book.
I mean, I took a lot of fights and a lot of drugs and a lot of rock and roll dumbness.
And just a lot of, actually, good stories didn't make it in, you know.
But I think I think we got left with a pretty good picture of everything, you know.
Everybody, it's actually funny because when I had the book signing a lot of people that I went to school with and like
5, 6 grade from my neighborhood showed up and they were like, dude, you nailed it, man.
You described the neighborhood so perfectly.
And the funny shit is actually one of the hitmen, the guys from my block was at my book signing.
And I actually asked him, I was like, dude, who the fuck was pigman?
And he's like, oh, man, that was crazy, Eddie.
And crazy, Eddie was a brand of PCP.
We always smoke back then, so I'm sure that's why he got the nickname.
But he's like, man, you know, he's got an auto body shop now, grandkids, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Like, where did you know, I'm like, what's on the message itself?
You know, but it was funny because literally like all that actually mattered more to me than the reviews of the book was
when I had people who were shared those experiences and people who grew up in the neighborhood.
I mean, even more so than the Chromex parts of the books like the people who were like, you know, you fucking nailed it, man.
This is exactly what the city was like.
I try to tell people all the time and they don't get it.
So I'm fucked up and I'm copied just so they could fucking see for themselves.
That was when I knew that I nailed it.
You know, that was, that was, you know, there was a couple publishers that didn't want to put it out.
They're like, yeah, we can't touch this.
Yeah, no, I can imagine.
Like, hey, you know how, you know, your wife had to lose like 20 to fight stories.
Yeah, I had to do for this podcast.
I got ready to, you know, we discussed a fraction of the crazy shit that's out here.
Yeah, no, I mean, we haven't even touched.
I mean, we could sit here and talk for the fucking, you know, tomorrow.
And, you know, but, but I do, you know, I just, the book gets it across.
And that's why, like I said, I thought I was familiar with the hardcore scene.
And factually, I mean, I went to CBGBs.
I don't know, hundreds of times when I was a kid.
And all shows all over the East Coast, Boston.
Yeah.
So, but I still didn't recognize that there was this much chaos.
And speaking of chaos, I'm going to go back to the book here.
I'm sitting in jail and here we go because of all the people talking shit and trying to frame me.
The record label I just signed with was having second thoughts.
Everything was coming to a head and now I had to prepare for a court date,
facing four felony counts of second degree assault and weapons charges for biting and stabbing people.
If there was ever, and I teach the kids.
If there was ever a time that I was about to lose my shit, I'd have to say it was around this time.
If there was ever a time someone would relapse into drugs, alcohol or self-destructive shit,
it was a time like this.
I actually went out and got drunk a few nights, which I hadn't done in a long time.
I was really depressed.
I was really at the bottom.
I could have easily spun out a control, but I said to myself, fuck that.
I'm not going to let myself go and do that to myself or my kids or give in and give the satisfaction to my enemies.
I'm a black belt.
I have more control than that now.
I'm not who I once was.
I'm stronger than that.
And then.
The next court date.
I wound up getting an.
An adjournment.
Again, because they didn't have a case against me and again, it got pushed back while the DA
continued to try and build it until finally in December of 2012.
They contacted my lawyer and said to appear in court on Friday, December 14th, when the entire case was dismissed.
Yeah.
And.
You.
At that point, you know, you kind of get back on track.
Yeah.
And.
Your teaching jiu jitsu, like you said.
And there's a good quote here when you're teaching jitsu after you had the incident.
Yeah, at Webster Hall and one of the parents said, you know, so here he comes back to start teaching the kids class again after he's been all over the front page of all the papers.
Everybody's looking at me like, oh, I walked in the academy and like every half the people were like super happy to see me in there.
They have looked at me like just like a gunslinger just walked it like I was like, you know,
fucking wild west.
One of the moms, one of the moms was quoted as saying, well, at least I know my kid isn't getting taught jiu jitsu by a pussy.
Yeah.
And that was what that fucking baby has allowed.
And yet, there's still, um, there's still hard times because at this point, you're losing custody your kids.
Yeah.
And that was, you know, that's, you know, I got to tell you, I mean, that that has been the biggest trial and tribulation I've dealt with.
And obviously I've dealt with many, but, you know, especially someone who didn't really have responsible people like really raising me, you know,
I, it really hurts to not be there for your kids every day, you know, because I really, I used to cherish those moments more than anything.
I mean, just walking them to school in the morning and the little conversations we would have on the way to school.
And, you know, taking them to jiu jitsu and, you know, I really was the, this is the main care taker.
I was with them all day, you know, I did everything with them took them to the park, to museums, to this is a that's is.
And, and then have that taken away.
It's difficult to, again, to not start fucking up.
You know, especially when you're dealing with depression and all that shit and again, you know, it's just like, like I said, you know,
you know, have someone to love and to feel that that reciprocation and, you know,
feel needed, it's hard to not feel needed, you know.
But I, you know, I went through all the process of family courtness and then, you know, unfortunately they don't live with me full time, but I see them a lot.
And, you know, everybody knows who's been through a divorce and as kids, or I fortunately, I was never married to their mother and we, but anybody who's been in that situation knows it's not easy and it comes with a lot of challenges.
So now my challenges is to try to be involved with my kids' lives as much as I can and to try to give them some moral guidance and manhood guidance from a distance, you know.
And sadly, they didn't see, you know, me and their mother act like complete and toll.
So, averages towards the end of the relationship because people when they break up, they typically don't know how to act or behave.
Even in front of their kids.
So, but, you know, even all of this is made me a stronger and wiser person because I feel that it has again forced me to look at myself.
And, you have choices in every situation, how you're going to react and how you're, you know, what you're going to do.
And now I really think about the consequences of everything.
I know I can't just react, explosively if somebody does or says something to me on the street because I know that that could cause me my freedom.
It could cause that my kids, their father could cause my wife or husband.
So, you know, even losing my kids has been a learning experience that I hope.
God forbid they ever, you know, wind up with kids and separated in this and that, but hopefully even this bad stuff can help them become better men and smarter men,
and hopefully better smarter than I was.
You know, and I just try to believe really in the end-love wins, you know.
Yeah, there's to one more thing that you had to overcome in the book.
And, you know, sometimes, man, I just read a big chunk of the books that I'm reviewing because it's just a, the way it's written and the way it goes together and the story that it tells,
I just don't really want to change and I just want to put it out there.
So, I'm kind of going to do that right here.
After all the madness in my life and the recent drama surrounding Webster Hall, my arrest losing my kids, starting a new relationship, getting my kids back in my life and dealing with all the drama of family court.
My mom was stricken with terminal cancer.
After a major operation in what seemed like a recovery, things took a turn for the worse.
And through it all, she remained supportive in my battle for my kids, and I started spending a lot more time with her.
It's fucked up when you know your mom or dad is dying.
You go through your whole life with all the baggage and shit that they put on you and all the shit in the world and your friends put on you.
And then there comes a time when you realize you have to put it all down and just let it all go.
I was with her as much as possible during the last few months.
We spent more time together than we had in years.
We even left the city one day just a month before she died to spend some time at a horse stable.
She loved horses and she hadn't been around them since she was a child.
She said it was the most beautiful day in her entire life.
And later she spent the night and then the next three nights in my apartment.
We had such a good time that she completely forgot to take her pain medication.
I hope I can face death with as much dignity.
The way she has handled it, I've never seen a brave person in my life.
She makes all the men I know look like cowards.
Sadly, she only saw my kids twice during her last few months.
But the time that they spent together was amazing and very meaningful and picked up her spirits.
And I don't know.
And I know that she took great comfort in the fact that I'm finally in a place in my life where things are coming together in a positive way.
I just wish she could have been here with us longer.
She died Monday, June 15, 2015.
At the funeral, her ashes were carried out and placed on a table.
They weren't a box not meant to be buried.
A beautiful statue of a crying angel.
We all took part in reading from Bible verses.
I held onto my son Jonah and he cried quietly.
My son Harley stood behind me with my girlfriend trying to keep his composure as tears rolled down as face.
At the end of the service of slight drizzle of rain started again.
Whenever everyone was done consoling each other and people started walking away,
I looked at the box sitting on the table surrounded by flowers with the whole in the ground beside it.
Two cemetery workers arrived with shovels and a rake and I walked back and asked if I could cover her with soil myself as I had done for my father 13 years earlier.
I explained that I didn't feel right about someone who didn't know my mother covering her with dirt.
They understood.
I think them.
I took the box with the angel off the table.
I kissed it. My son's kissed it.
And I got down on my knees and put it in the ground.
One of the cemetery workers handed me a shovel and I started to fill the hole.
My youngest son, who had been crying, came over next to me.
God on his knees and started to help me fill the hole with his hands.
Grabbing pieces of soil and putting them in, picking out rocks.
So none would damage her box as we filled it.
And his tears stopped.
I put down the shovel and we both finished by hand.
And then I raked the soil over and we padded down the earth with our hands.
And it was done.
They were so sad and so beautiful.
The next day was father's day.
When I started writing this book, I didn't know what the end was going to be.
Or what I wanted to say besides telling the story of my life and setting the record straight.
But now it's so obvious what is about.
Closure.
And that.
That wraps up the book.
And.
Look, no one has lived a perfect life.
We've all made mistakes.
We've all done things that can't be undone.
And we've gone places that we should not have gone.
But we all have the opportunity to redeem ourselves.
And it starts with confessing.
What we've done, it starts with owning it.
And then getting on the right path and staying on the right path.
And staying on that path.
The correct path.
It takes discipline.
And it takes humility. And it takes courage.
And it's hard.
But.
What is the other choice?
What else can we do?
Let the darkness completely consume us.
We've.
For instant gratification wherever we can find it.
Be overtaken.
By temptation.
And vice.
No.
That's struggle with all these things.
They're caught.
They're drowning.
They're folding under the weight of pain and suffering and misery and addiction.
And they ask me what I think.
And what Harley proves is that you are better than that.
You are better.
And you can triumph over these dark forces.
You can become better.
You can be better.
For yourself.
And for the people around you.
For all of us.
Hold the line.
Stay clean.
And never surrender.
You overcame a lot of stuff, man.
I have.
Still trying.
Yeah.
I guess everyone is.
This is the time in the podcast.
Why we have that go here.
Because we got the chance to decompress a little bit.
Yes.
He gets to ask a couple questions.
They're playing my little quick.
Yeah.
You can see when I walk.
You thought it was a compound fracture.
Yeah.
I was wondering how it was bone.
Makes sense.
Yeah.
You can get straight up stabbed.
Stuff hanging out.
Yeah.
What's next?
Oh, my head is all for you.
Okay.
So clear.
Here's your eyeball.
Thanks.
Yeah.
That's why I'm so sketchy when it comes to, like as much as I, you know, I got admitted.
That's it was fun.
I like a good adrenaline.
It's done.
A good violent confrontation.
A good fight.
It is fun.
It's like life and death.
You know, so it's like, you know, like I said, you know, like I had that one fight and
California where I'm running into a mob of all these dudes, like, you know, I was high off that shit for like a week.
My adrenaline was like, I felt like I could fucking.
Yeah.
And then like a week later, I'm like, what the fuck was that shit?
As much as, you know, yeah, it was fun.
How often do you get to have a street fight anymore, you know, shit, especially at my age?
But three guys.
Yeah.
That's a nice full-time.
But it was all the other shit, all the fucking ripple effects that came one way or like fuck.
I mean, I see my kids.
Fuck.
I may be in jail, fuck, over the next three years, like fucking, you know, protecting my ass from bubbles over here.
Yeah.
You know, like fucking, you know, the whole shit was like, damn, man.
Okay, we forget we just all get along.
Okay, we all just have a street fight, you know, just like, can we all just have a street fight?
Get on with our shit, you know.
But, you know, shit happens.
Yeah, we're gonna do, man.
Yeah, we put everything into perspective.
The whole getting into street fights doesn't seem quite as dope.
Yeah.
You know, it's, it changes when you got responsibility.
Yeah, that's the thing.
The responsibility.
Yeah.
And he's speaking or responsibility.
He's speaking of responsibility.
We're not getting any younger.
So we'll talk about on it first, as always.
So on it, supplements, you know, you know, but on it.
No.
Most people don't use to know about on it.
Oh, and the West Coast, they do.
I think that's how you motherfuckers are so big, because you're on it.
Yeah, I need to get so much shit.
I need to get out of my head.
I need to get out of it.
Yeah, I need to get out of it.
Yeah, I love my head.
Yeah, what the fuck is up with on it?
Yeah, actually true, but here in India, and that's what I thought too,
with supplements, where it's like, yeah, it takes up a month to get you big.
I found that that's not necessarily the case.
So the supplements that I take that we take.
Mm-hmm.
They're for like, you got a suitcase with some enemy.
I'll get you out of it.
I'm getting on it, motherfucker.
I've been on another shit.
I'm gonna get on it.
This is, this is stuff that's good.
This is legal.
I want, I want you to be on the right stuff,
that's what you're talking about.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Move it towards the lights.
Yeah, the light is on it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
This is the way for the darkness.
Yes.
But you can do Jinyan Hall like you get, for example,
the ones that I take feet now,
this krill oil.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
For inflammation and this is your life.
Exactly, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So the, so I know it is like a real reputable company that,
like you know you're getting,
because right, you can get supplements.
Yeah, you get it like fiddle,
they say crill and you're getting like fucking rot oil.
Yeah, right?
Yeah, this match point or oil, this is shit, you know?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And they're like, yeah, there's crill oil here.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But the rest of it's all vitamin E gel.
Yes, exactly right.
So this is on it.
It's like known to be the best.
I'm gonna have to get down, actually.
I'll be the main guy.
His, like he has extensive background and like,
uptake, you know how like,
You can get calcium supplement, but that supplement won't deliver the uptake so your body
doesn't get even breaking it down or absorbing it.
Yeah, it's exactly that.
So there's only still a lot of different vitamins and all that shit.
I try to get all my vitamins through food.
Yes.
If I can, you know, that's optimal.
Yeah.
So that's kind of the point where like, yeah, when you get it with food, you know that you're
going to get the best uptake.
But for the most part, you know, if you're getting your, you know, I don't know,
protein from soybeans or something, you know, I don't get as much protein as you animals
over here.
I'm a vegetarian.
I have been since like 82 or something like that.
What I also think is one of the reasons why I managed to maintain a certain level
of health and sanity.
I think that that actually helped me the wheatgrass.
Yeah, we're so weak.
Hey, hey, everyone's wishing to podcast.
You're shooting up heroin, make sure you're safe here, we're grass.
And always wear a condom when you're shooting.
Yeah.
Yeah, good lord.
But yeah, figure that's optimal from the food.
But on it, like they do a good job in knowing like the optimum way to uptake the nutrients.
Yeah, found that out.
Nice.
That's a, you know, that's a good one.
You know, one of the reasons.
So we do krill oil, strong bone new when I just started jockel always does it for your
joints.
Did you get to, you know, now I have some joint issues.
Yeah, man.
After a while, that's how.
Yeah.
Yeah, and the krill oil helps a lot.
A lot, a lot.
I'd say that's the number one.
I think so.
That I would recommend.
I'd recommend a few more other things too, but just for different reasons.
Like they have this one of warrior bars, buff well, you're vegetarian.
So never mind a problem.
It's buffalo meat.
Buffalo meat.
Made, you know, like they make not necessarily.
Well, I know buffalo meat better for you.
I mean, I know, you know, it doesn't have all the fucking hormones.
I don't know if you could necessarily offer it to the gods, which god you're offering
it to.
I mean, I'm sure there's some Native American god you could offer.
There's a lot of god there.
I mean, the warrior bars, it's good.
I know that much.
Yeah.
You know, I'm just going to feel him do.
There's enough gods to pick from.
Yeah, sure.
I think I've got plenty of.
Yeah.
I think they'd be down for the shrimp tech as well, which is stuff.
It's made from mushroom.
Can you know the mushroom name?
Different kind of mushroom.
Yeah, you're a muster.
Yeah.
When he boards started this out, good.
But it's just to help you uptake oxygen when you go athletic.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know, you need to, especially as you get older, your oxygen doesn't travel as well.
Yeah.
I just realize there's no greater joy for echo than when someone's on the podcast as a guest
that wants to know about the stuff.
He's Paul Blot.
He's good.
That'll ask me at, like, when I'm training or whatever they look at, what's the real oil?
Is that like, you know, you're thinking, and then, bro, I'm like, doing a sales pitch to my food.
It seems like it anyway.
You get him a crills shirt.
Yeah.
You're a scum.
I'm gonna hit.
I asked me about the krill oil.
No, don't.
Don't.
I'm telling you, in the mornings, I told this start before.
Jocard, it plenty times.
In the mornings, my daughter, she's, she's like, for now, but, you know, when she's like three,
she'd come in, which is the only person in the world that hasn't heard the story.
It's hardly fun.
Yeah.
But he's about to hear it.
No one's gonna stop for now.
He did it all.
You and me talk for three hours right there?
Echo gets to talk for an hour now about three hours.
Go.
Yeah, you told me story, and that was a good answer.
Here we go.
Anyway, she'd jump.
She'd she'd wake me up, jump from my back.
So, you know, now I gotta stand up.
Out of bed, cold sore from whatever.
With a three year old, I'm at back.
And it's best if I gotta do the correct form to get up.
Otherwise, you know, you turn your back, you knees all that stuff.
After like, it was just under a weak, krill oil.
No factor.
It's like I was already warm.
That's the feeling.
You want some krill oil now?
I was just gonna interject.
I gotta give my father-in-law some props to me.
He rest in peace.
He turned me on to the krill.
Oh, right.
See, my father-in-law, right?
I mean, so the father-in-law's got what's up.
Father-in-law's, they've been around.
Yeah, they've been around a little longer than us.
Yeah, no, he turned me on.
And even though I am a vegetarian, I do take the fish or the krill oil and whatnot.
Because, you know what, I mean, look, I started off as a vegetarian for whatever spiritual
revisions and whatever health reasons.
Now, I believe it's best to have a mainly vegetarian diet.
But if my body starts saying, mother fuck, you need some fish.
Like, you are like about to drop dead if you don't get some serious proteins.
It's like, I will do what my body tells me to do.
I think humans are designed to be able to do vegetarian and meat.
That's why we have two different kinds of teeth.
You know, when we were hunter-gatherers, you know, you were gathering a lot more than you were hunting,
realistically.
Because hunting wasn't always easy.
You would have fucking spear, you know.
So, you know, I listen to my body a lot too and my body usually tells me to eat.
Okay.
You know, props.
Yep, total props.
Well, the good thing about the krill, whether this meat, however much this means.
How they harvest the krill is also, yes.
Yes, so how they do it, though, is good.
They use like eco-friendly chips.
You watch the video friendly shit.
Yeah, it's the crazy, it's the whole thing.
You can do it.
I can do it.
Not the go-friendly shit.
Fuck it.
I watched the video.
Who's good?
Okay.
You just need that in your own podcast called The Echo on it.
I'm gonna.
People need to know, I think you got to fucking make your own line.
Echo oil.
Something.
I don't know.
I'm not.
I think they have an nail in that.
Sure.
All right, on it.
I'm gonna get on it.
Interesting.
Lee enough.
How your father-in-law turned out?
My father-in-law turned me on to it.
I didn't listen to him, by the way.
I only did it when Jockel was like, yeah, I take krill.
So I was like, okay, I'm gonna take krill on my father-in-law.
Yeah, shit.
Whatever.
Anyway.
On it.
.com slash Jockel.
That's how you can get 10% off of all your stuff, whatever you like.
Well, I'm just gonna ask him directly.
Get me the 10%.
Oh, it's like, yeah.
Yeah.
That's what I did in the beginning too.
Take krill oil.
Yeah.
Also, good way to support Amazon.
Click through.
So what all that is, you shop Amazon, right?
I guess I have.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's a, yeah.
You're the only person that had heard like the krill oil store.
Now you're the only person in the world that's not getting everything that
buy off of Amazon.
I live in the city.
I go to the store.
I guess it's different here.
We want it.
We go out.
Yeah.
Plus it's your get it.
You can walk.
Yeah.
You got yards.
You got.
And that's why we got you.
You got yards.
Fuck.
Yama.
Fuck it's all misery.
No winter.
Yeah.
It's as much as no.
Nothing.
You can study.
We have a winter.
Yeah.
You know he's from Hawaii, right?
So he's from Hawaii, right?
Yeah.
He takes it from California.
He goes one step further.
Yeah.
My mom says that, oh yeah.
And the winter.
It rains a lot.
I don't even know.
I mean, it feeds the plants.
Yeah.
What is that?
You know?
Lessons of fucking mind soon.
I don't want to hear it.
Yeah, man.
I hear that.
That things.
But yeah.
So Amazon.
All right.
That's where it is.
All these things you're during the mehons.
In the event of you shopping on Amazon and it's good for everyone.
Before you go to Emily, you click through the website.
Through all websites.
Your website.
Yeah.
So it's like a little.
Yes.
I'm not saying, hey, thanks for referring.
You know, it's pretty dope.
That's pretty dope.
They give us a little bit a little piece of that.
Yeah.
And you know what it caught.
The cool thing is because you can set up things for, like, podcasts.
That's basically give me money.
Get, just give me money.
But yeah.
I don't really like asking people for money.
Yeah.
This is, you don't even.
It doesn't.
Your price doesn't go up.
It's actually in my book.
It's kind of a good way to stick it to the man.
Because Amazon got a kick a little bit down to the podcast.
Yeah.
But it's kind of not because you stick it to the man too.
I thought you were a wealthy man.
You know what I mean?
This is the way.
Kind of an ambiguous position.
I guess I'm proud of you.
So that's the root man.
I'm a good keeper.
It's a joke.
You're a fucking man.
Wait a minute.
I am a man.
I'm a man.
But I mean either way, you know, when you do do do do do do do do do do do do.
I think it does benefit.
I'm a man.
Because like a referral, you know.
I mean okay.
So you're saying that somebody might order something from another online retailer, but
instead someone says I'm going to support the podcast.
Yeah, fuck that support the podcast.
Yeah, yeah.
I like that.
Don't be a bunch of bitches.
You got to support the home team.
I feel the same way.
It's a part of the idea.
But I'm actually pretty cool.
Like that.
They'll offer everyone to want like little things.
I want to donate like you round up like let's say your thing costed like eight,
eighty nine.
You a year ago 11 cents to the next doll.
You don't donate that 11 cents to like something.
It's like chair anyway.
I'm not so good like that.
Anyway, you know, so put the podcast through the Amazon click through go to the
jocopotcast website, which is jocopotcast.com and click on the support or the Amazon
banner then do your shopping.
That's a good way.
Some people.
They'll do it and then like the little.
They'll get a screenshot of it and they'll sell it.
And they'll send it to me on Twitter.
Yeah, that's cool.
That is dope.
It's like confirmation.
Yeah.
And it's kind of like like they're saying hey, I'm supporting them.
But and I feel that like the literal direct support from them.
If you want to give that go Charles a good day as your support podcast.
So hit him with a little social media.
It's a little bit.
A lot of times they don't see like the price and I think they'll they'll just say,
Oh, it'll be a screenshot pretty ambiguous.
It could very well not even be them supporting the podcast necessarily.
Just I just feel like call. Yeah, just trying to tell you.
It works.
I like when they do that.
It makes me feel good.
I feel like they care.
Please.
Yeah.
Very easy.
Easy.
You know what?
You can subscribe to the podcast iTunes if you listen to it on iTunes and
Stitcher Google Play all these ones.
Yeah, that helps leave review if you're in the mood.
Like what Jocco's saying or hardly think like.
Yeah, I mean, you know, give a review on this specific one.
We have a YouTube channel.
If you have not subscribed to that, go ahead and subscribe to that.
If you like the video version of this podcast, but the excerpts, you know,
people been kind of giving me crap about saying excerpts a lot.
Do I say excerpts?
Do you say it a lot and you put your tone on it?
For real?
Yeah.
You don't you say.
I don't think you said it a lot.
No, you don't say, hey, you know, we've got some excerpts that we put on the,
You go, I made a couple excerpts.
Yeah, you go, you go escalation voice level 12.
Yeah, I guess.
Well, I think those, you're right.
Was that your idea?
excerpts?
Yeah.
There you go.
Yeah, because people don't want to watch.
Yeah, they're not going to watch three hours.
Yeah, three hour podcast.
If there's some point, oh, hey, Jocco, you cool thing with Harley Flanagan.
He was talking about this.
Yeah.
They want to see Harley for three minutes.
I want to send it to their buddy that they listen to Hardcore with.
Yeah.
They can't send them, hey, watch this three and a half hour podcast in the next during your lunch break.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You can't do it.
You've got to send them a little clip.
Listen, Harley Flanagan talk about a street fight.
No, yeah, exactly right.
Maybe you should do a bunch of excerpts of yourself talking about on it.
An excerpt.
Let me say an excerpts.
Yeah, no, that's not very shareable.
But that was a good idea.
Thank you, Jocco, for that.
So if you want to see excerpts of random lessons, not random, they're not random.
Sorry, any mean random.
Exerpts of lessons, individual lessons selected selected from the podcast.
Boom, that's on YouTube.
And also, if you want one, tell Echo on social media, hey, make this time period on this podcast into an excerpt and put me on their two because that way I can harass him.
Now we can't do everything.
Everything go on.
Yeah, she's great.
Every single one.
But some of them, I see.
And I go, yeah, I go, come on, man.
Yeah.
I think we're going to do that one.
But you're not going to do that one.
You're going to do that one.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I think we're going to do that one.
But you're not going to do that one.
You're going to do that one.
That's the good.
We'll have T-shirts.
Because everybody, that's the good thing.
They want excerpts, but people also want half T-shirts for everything.
You know, like anything that some person share somewhere.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Somebody finds something funny or interesting or whatever.
And it's a, we need to make that a new a teacher.
And then it gets escalated to a certain point where enough people ask for it.
And then we break down echo breaks down.
Yeah.
And it makes a teacher.
Sit up.
We're working.
It's like a.
Yeah, it's good.
You know, yeah, so the excerpts.
Good idea.
Thank you.
YouTube.
But if you do the request, if you're requesting that the, you know, what
that episode and what excerpts are you know, which, which excerpts are already on there.
Because sometimes people, hey, do this on.
And then it already be on there.
Just saying.
Yes, sometimes people tell me to do a book review.
And it's already been done.
Oh, yeah.
If you're doing a review.
You do a lot.
Yeah, I don't want.
Yeah, I get a lot of requests like that.
Yeah.
And then I have to, then I have to look up and see which one it is.
And then send it back to him and say,
Hey, man, I already did it on this one.
Yeah.
Actually, that's a good, like how we're going over today.
That's a good thing about how we put the,
the timestamps on all the subjects.
So, and that feeds into the search term.
So if you, you're like, hey, soon, so,
Jock podcast, art of war, it'll go.
Boom.
To that episode.
Yeah.
Twenty, twenty, three, you know, actually coming on top of this book.
There's a book out about HR right now for the bad brands.
Yeah.
And the reason I'm thinking of this is because one of my buddies,
who's into the podcast, who was a hardcore kid growing up.
And his name's not go, but he's a, he's a cop in LA.
And he was a cop in New York.
And so, I'm just thinking about that.
Like, here's a kid that grew up listening to the crowmags.
Who's been like, saying, get hardly art.
You got to get art.
He's a cop.
He's a bad ass cop.
And his, and his girls a cop too.
They're, they're getting that right.
I got a phrase that a cop's man.
Yeah.
I don't hate them all.
You know, you know, you know,
people they'll be like, hey, no, I don't eat cops.
I got friends that are cops.
Yeah.
Some of my best friends are blind.
Look, I got to picture me and a cop on my phone.
Oh, that's what I'm thinking.
Now I'm that bastard.
Bastard.
Yeah, but I'm literally not to be trusted.
Fuck.
No.
Okay.
Also, hey, Jack was a story.
It's called Jackal Store.
He's shirt, Jackal and weird.
Yeah, man.
I think I need to get one of these.
This clinic was freedom.
My fucking shirt.
You know, I wrote a song recently that I named discipline equals freedom.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
And just I got a fucking say because, you know, I don't give a fuck.
I'm going to say it.
And that's that, you know, when I found out that Jackal was in the hardcore.
And when I found out that he was into my band, the chrome axe, I was very proud
and all.
And I asked this mother, fuck, you have thought about singing in the hardcore.
And the fucking reaction I got out of this mother fucker.
If my computer screen could just turn into like a fucking screaming like, ah, the mother
fucking, the response.
Anyway, I'm very proud to say that what we're going to be playing besides doing this
European tour, I'm going away in week playing all with place.
And we're coming back and in June, I'm going to be playing in LA.
And we have invited Jacko to come and make a special guest appearance when we play at the
Fury Fest in LA.
So for all you mother fuckers out there who want to see me playing with one of the baddest
mother fuckers walking this fucking earth certified by the US fucking government.
Then you, you, you, you were going to see some fucking badass shit because I'll tell you,
I have not gotten, I haven't been able to just play the bass and not be like chained to the microphone
in a really long time.
And that was one of the things that was intense about the chromaics back in the old days was that me and the singer both used to go
fucking, ape shit when we played.
And it's funny because you know, I was, I've been thinking for the longest time.
And if I could get a singer, what I get, and I'm like, you know, shit.
I'm like, you know, Henry Rons and his prime was fucking badass, you know,
Philon Selma when his prime was a fucking badass.
I wanted to have a joke with you.
So, what's he, what happens if my kids up in my hands?
You would have to watch all you motherfuckers and what is he some shit?
You know, I used to have a fake seals singing in my band.
I didn't get a real one.
What's he, what happens if my, if a mic ends up in my hands?
Well, I may have to slap with him.
I can see what happens.
Oh, boom. Yeah, you can sing the, or with those shirts on.
Yeah, that's a little bit.
That's fucking right.
Well, yeah, man, jockel story, that's where you get him.
I got you. Whatever shirt you need.
Oh yeah, for sure.
But if you're in the mood to support the podcast purchase a shirt or whatever,
we have other stuff on there.
Jockel story, calm.
What about those mugs you made?
Yeah, those are some good mugs.
So I shouldn't have even said this.
He's been amped about these brawffy mugs we got.
Or what do you call travel mugs? Travel mugs, tumblers.
I've heard, yeah, I've heard.
Here we go.
All right, look, I won't go that deep into it this time.
Next time I'm going deep.
Extra deep. This time I'll go just kind of deep.
This is straight up the best cup of everything.
It's a look and look like his head.
It's like a hands-line.
Yeah, look, look, look, look.
Drop better.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Actually, we kept it a little bit.
You know, it's just black on black.
It's like black matte and then the design.
You know, it looks like this on one side.
And then it's shiny black.
Anyway, it looks super dope.
But 30 ounces.
So big enough.
But small enough, just fitting your cup holder.
Boom.
I'd be drinking some motherfuck coffee.
So, so here's the thing.
But the coffee.
It's those ones that are like,
I don't know how they make them, you know, the inside and the, I don't know.
They're stainless steel, BPA-free, all this, you know, good stuff.
I don't know what all of that means, but it's, I know it's dope.
It's krill involved.
Yeah, it's somewhere, you know, down the line.
It's, uh, krill is involved.
But it keeps it like your, if you like your coffee hot,
it'll keep it hot for like eight hours or something like that.
I don't know if it keeps it the same temperature for eight hours.
It might, I don't know.
I've never had hot summer.
I'm a cold coffee guy.
All right. Well, here's a good news about that, bro.
I'm sure.
But you put, put, put, how's this?
I put ice water in it and I was drinking it.
I drank, like almost all of it.
There was still a little bit in the bottom and I forgot about it.
Went to sleep.
The next day I was cleaning up.
I was like, oh, my cup from last night.
Boom, ice, still in there.
You know how usually in a regular cup, it's like water.
It'll keep it cold for 24 hours.
Boom, not losing any coldness.
Anyway, I want to go way deeper next time.
But this is straight.
You have a special podcast for you to talk about that, that cup.
A very good cup.
Yeah, one episode will be the cup.
The other episode will be the oil.
Yeah. Oh, no, oil.
That's it.
That's everything.
I'll go deep.
I'll go deep with the oil.
Bro, I'll go deep with the grill oil right now if we have to.
I know what.
Anyway, I'll go to the oil.
Jockelster.
Yeah.
It's essentially what it is anyway.
But yeah.
But yeah, Jockelster, this is some cool stuff on there.
Travel mugs are out.
Those are good.
There's some bumper stickers, some women stuff on there.
Some patches, some rash guards, one new rash guard.
And it's not, it'll be out.
But nonetheless, I'm not going to promise anything quite yet.
But new rash guards can be out.
Hoodies are out there.
There's some good stuff.
Hey, just take a look.
If you like what's on there, you want to support it in that way.
Get something.
Also psychological warfare.
Okay.
All right, Harley might not know about psychological warfare.
So I'm going to explain it.
Good deed.
Not that deed.
So basically, it's an album.
We're three hours and 18 minutes into this.
We're gonna stop.
All right.
It's an album.
There he does the care.
Echo don't care.
He doesn't care.
No, I'm just saying this part is kind of important too.
Okay.
I mean, people are out there getting after it.
Yeah.
Waking up early.
Some people, some of us.
Sticking to the programs,
sticking to the diet, sticking to the workouts.
Right?
Everyone's on all you wake up or you don't feel like waking up early that day.
Or you don't feel like working out that day.
You're kind of tired.
You at a hard day, whatever.
So when it's time to, when it's go time, you're like,
hey, maybe I'll skip today.
You know, when you're sleeping on the program.
You know what I'm feeling?
Yeah.
Just a boy and we all did.
When you skip your week grass.
Exactly right.
So bam, you get this.
It's okay.
It's an album called Psychological References.
It's not music.
It's just tracks with Jocco telling you how to overcome those week moments in your program.
Oh boy.
But it's him telling when I, when I, when I, I'm having a week moment,
the last thing I want to fucking hear is,
Choco fucking telling me to get after it.
Oh fuck, really, right now.
I gotta do that.
Really, fuck.
It's 4 o'clock.
I don't really have it.
Give me a fucking other four hours.
Fuck me.
You know, I like sleep.
I don't know what the fuck is wrong with you guys, but whatever.
That's all good.
Yeah, heck.
You know, echo like sleep too.
I like sleep a lot.
I'm having a lot of sleep.
I like dreams.
No, I like sleep too.
No, actually I don't sleep as the enemy.
I mean, I like the way it's like it's like the last hallucinogenic I can take.
Yeah.
It's about sleep.
It's just a sleep.
I dream.
My brain goes bananas.
Love it.
Yeah.
If you have my dreams, you don't want to sleep.
I love prefer to be awake.
Yeah.
I hear your sense.
Okay.
I get it.
But it goes for the workout from 2 to not just a sleep.
So you can skip the sleep ones.
So you go, like, they, they work out when it's heavy.
You don't skip the workout.
Anyway, it's good.
Very helpful.
100% chance of success with talent.
That's a good one.
Psychological warfare.
And also, by the way, when you click through Amazon, you can click through and you can buy this book right here.
The book is called Hardcore Life of My Own.
It is written by Harley Flanagan.
And we'll have it up on the website.
But let me refer to that.
It's on the website.
So we're waiting to be purchased.
And there you go.
Pick it up.
On Amazon, you can also get some jok a white tea.
I hear now there's some things in the book that Harley does not recommend.
He, he's tried them, but he does not recommend.
Some of those things that he clearly states in the book.
He literally says, I do not recommend.
For instance, I do not recommend angel bust.
I do not recommend heroin.
I do not.
So there's a lot of things he doesn't recommend.
Now, here's something that I will strongly recommend.
And that's Jokal White Tea.
It's going to get you a lot better results than anything.
Any of the supplements that Harley's taking in this book.
You go with Jokal White Tea instead.
You're going to have a much better trip.
I'm going to tell you that right now.
Also, we talked a lot about jjitsu today.
And we talked about jjitsu a lot.
You know, jjitsu is a powerful thing.
And there's a book that's out right now.
And it's geared.
It's written kind of written for kids.
It's called Way of the War Your Kid.
It's available.
Everyone that's bought it already.
Thank you.
I appreciate the support.
Thanks for spreading the word.
Thanks for letting kids get a little insight into life.
And I'll tell you there's something about this book that is,
that I wrote it.
The, the, the father.
The book is about a kid who's, you know,
fifth grade going through life.
The father in the book doesn't have a role.
Now, you might think I'm a, you know, bad person for not giving the father the role.
But, you know, the jjitsu, all he says, there's one line about the father in the book.
He says, my dad's gone a lot with work and stuff.
It's that ambiguous.
And there's a couple reasons why I did that.
And the number one reason is because not everyone, not every kid has got a dad.
I mean, what you're saying is actually very real.
Yeah.
You know, and a lot of kids have to just deal with,
oh, yeah, my father's not around much.
Yeah, you know.
And that's why I did it.
And there's another subtle reason.
And, you know, without going into too much crazy detail,
the lead character in the book is named as Mark.
And he's actually named after Mark Lee who was one of my guys,
just incredible, incredible person, incredible warrior,
and he was killed in Iraq.
And, you know, he was, he never did.
His mom raised him.
And, you know, so it was my way of saying, look,
you know, not everyone has a dad.
And in the book, he's got a strong uncle that comes in and helps him.
But at the end of the book, his uncle points out to them.
He says, who's going to help me now?
And his uncle says to him, look, you don't need to,
you know what the right things to do are.
You know how to stay on the right path.
You don't need someone to hold your hand all the time.
You can make this happen for yourself.
And that's my, the message, you know,
that I'm trying to get across to kids that might not have a dad.
They might not have an uncle.
They might not have a mom.
But you can find out what the right path is.
You can get on it.
You can stay on it.
And that's, that's why I wrote the book that way.
And, and you know, it's, it's interesting because I've got
asked many times over the years, you know, about what do you think about
fatherhood and, and the important roles that father's play.
And again, you know, I go back to, for instance,
Mark Lees, a great example of a kid that was raised.
And have a dad.
And his mom's a strong woman and a, and a incredible person.
And she raised a warrior.
So that's why I did that in that book.
And you know, another thing I did in that book is, you know,
Gigietsu plays a prominent role, but you could replace that with wrestling,
with boxing, with, with Moitai, but Gigietsu is really a big part of it.
But so is studying, you know, learning, learning how to learn.
And, and, and as a kid seeing what the opportunity is in being educated,
because a lot of kids, myself included when you're going to school,
when you're 10 years old or 15 years old, you don't care.
You just don't care.
And it's, I want, I want kids to realize that it's beneficial to get
stronger, faster, smarter, and better.
So that's it way of the warrior kid, get it, and get it for your local library,
too, because they need it, because there's some kid that will grab that book
in the library and you'll get him on the right path.
Also, discipline equals freedom, field manual.
You can find it by itself in the get after it's section.
Of any bookstore or online book retailer.
If you look in the get after it's section, this is a big empty shelf.
There's a one book that's called this,
Plunicos Freedom Field Manual.
We have to start petitioning now to make that happen at Amazon.
They just need like, when you drop down business, lifestyle, health and fitness,
get it after it's a boom.
There's that one book.
They better get in the game.
And,
also there's extreme ownership.
They're a book that kind of started all of this stuff, by the way.
Thanks, appreciate it.
It's about leadership, and it's about combat,
and it's about taking fucking responsibility, and it's about taking responsibility.
And that's fucking huge.
That's huge.
That's something that I think is one of the hardest things for most people to do.
And you know, I actually highlighted that a bunch of times in your book,
where you're kind of explaining things that
you're talking about,
I guess you would say maybe resulted in something happening in bad in your life,
and you'd say, hey, this happened, and this happened, and this happened,
and every time you went, laid that out,
at the end of it, you'd say,
but it's my fault.
And I should have done, I made this happen to myself.
So it's pretty, and you wrote this book before,
you probably write this to me,
and I know you were writing this book the same to our,
I was writing that book when I was basically fucking trying to kill myself,
drugs and everything else is when I started it.
And even in that state, you always say, you know, it's my fault.
I should have, you know, hey, my dad always make a habit
out of looking for other people to blame.
I mean, it's important to identify the roots of the problem
and so on, and what made you the way you are,
so you can fix them exactly.
So now, exactly.
And a big part of being a man is accepting responsibility
for your fuck-ups.
Yeah, and I thought that was awesome.
You know, and again, you know,
when you were talking about what you learned from your dad
not being around, and then how you apply that to help other kids
that are in that situation, teaching them to jitsu
and take care of them and build relationships
the best you can with your kids and with other kids
that around man, that's exactly what you're talking about.
So that's extreme ownership,
and also don't hoard the knowledge.
You might think, hey, I'm going to get extreme ownership
for myself.
I'm going to read it at night,
and then I'm going to become a good leader,
and I'm going to do better at work.
Don't do that.
That's the wrong move.
What you want to do is you want to actually distribute it
to your team.
Yeah.
And that way they all get on board,
and now the whole team starts kicking ass.
That's what you want to do.
Up and down the chain of command.
Then if you need more than that,
you can hire our leadership and management consulting company
echelon fund.
We are the premier leadership consulting company.
In the entire world.
So where are the ones that teach the methods and the techniques
and the tactics and procedures from extreme ownership,
proven and combat?
So you can email contact us info at echelonfront.com.
We just had the master number two in New York City.
Awesome event.
If you missed it, come to Texas.
July 13, 14.
Omni Barton Creek, resort and spa.
And again, forget about the spa.
You're not going to spa.
Don't come for the spa.
Not happening.
But what we'll be happening is leadership.
We'll talk about combat leadership and how to apply that
to your business and to your life.
And if you can't make Texas,
okay, we got backup.
We got contingency operations.
If you can't come to Texas,
September 14th and 15th,
we will be back in San Diego on my home turf.
Where there is no winter.
We got big yards and barbecue spoiled mother.
First floor.
And that's a regular like it.
It's alright.
You're entitled to be spoiled at this point in your life.
It's, I'll take it.
I'll give you a pass on that.
Until the monsters,
we can be found actually on the interwebs.
On Twitter, on Instagram.
It in the Facebook.
Okay, I'm going to find it there.
Hardly is at Harley F.
Flanagan.
In Flanagan to spelled F.L.A.N.A.
G.A.N.
Harley F. Flanagan.
Echo is at Echo Charles and I am at
Jocca Willink.
Echo, you got anything else?
Nope, that's it.
Man, my pleasure.
Gentlemen, it was real pleasure.
Absolutely.
Any other closing comments you want to make?
I definitely wouldn't advise smoking, PCP.
Taking a list, not seriously.
No, thanks for having me on, man.
It's real pleasure.
You know, you become a big inspiration.
I love reading.
You're quotes in your books and listening in the podcast.
Sometimes it's exactly the kick in the ass that I need.
And I appreciate that.
And again, I'm very honored and proud to have been part of the soundtrack to your life.
Indeed.
Yes, indeed.
I'd also like to give a shout out to my better half who,
now her, I definitely wouldn't be doing so well.
My book would not be as good.
It would probably suck.
And my life would definitely suck.
So Laura Lee Flanagan, I love you.
And if my sons are listening to this podcast,
I love you boys and keep up all the good work and keep you training going.
And keep checking out Jocca Will's podcast.
You might learn a thing or two.
Awesome. Well, partly obviously, thanks for coming on the show and such a pleasure, man.
Thanks for the years of music that you gave to me and millions of other kids that
needed to hear it.
And thanks for making it through what you've made it through and coming out on the other side with a
positive outlook and a positive impact and a positive message that it's never too late
that it's never too dark and that we can always turn things around.
As long as you're alive, there is hope.
Yes, indeed.
Thanks to everyone else.
That's listening and supporting and spreading the word and as always to the folks in the military out there.
We salute you and thank you all for holding the demons at the gate.
And to the police and law enforcement and firefighters and EMTs and first responders.
Thanks for fighting the demons here at home.
And to anyone else that's out there that's listening.
That's started to go down.
And that hole down into that mall trapped in the chains of depression or addiction or rage.
When you're down in that hole, look up.
And recognize that there is a way out.
There is a path for you to take.
And it's not an easy path.
It'll be a fight.
It'll be a fight that demands focus and work and tenacity.
And of course discipline.
But it is that path.
That hard path, that hard path of discipline that will lead you to freedom.
So stay on that path.
And until next time, this is Harley Flanagan, Andeko, and Jocco.
Oh.